With Eleanor, for telling but her dream?
I know thou dost; and, sweet Revenge, farewell.
'Tis probable and palpable to thinking.
He's married, madam.
When crouching marrow in the bearer strong
Shall furnish me to those Italian fields,
'M, O, A, I, doth sway my life.' Nay, but first, let
Instructs you how to adore the heavens and bows you
To call upon his own, and humbly prays you
A sad tale's best for winter: I have one
Save that Euriphile must be Fidele.
So, lie thou there;
This wind, you talk of, blows us from ourselves;
his service
be no great love in the beginning, yet heaven may
So should my thoughts be sever'd from my griefs,
There shalt thou find my cousin Beatrice
Out of the pain you suffer'd, gave no ear to't.
Pardon me, madam; I have unadvised
Music
And with her breath she did perfume the air:
My boon is, that this gentleman may render
That ever govern'd man.
See that Claudio
As benefits forgot:
And copy of the father, eye, nose, lip,
your hearts.
There is no better way than that they spoke of.
standing-bed and truckle-bed; 'tis painted about
But at fourscore it is too late a week:
I have ground the axe myself;
Repair those violent harms that my two sisters
Thou dost make possible things not so held,
The next is this, King John hath reconciled
I cannot mend it, I must needs confess,
I here renounce him and return to Henry.
Count Claudio, whom you sent me to seek.
Who lets it hop a little from her hand,
Thou didst love York, and I am son to York.
Ungarter'd, and down-gyved to his ancle;
We will, fair queen, up to the mountain's top,
Who never promiseth but he means to pay.
Methinks it is like a weasel.
How long within this wood intend you stay?
Yet he is come.
Who do you speak to, 'Why blame you me to love you?'
And when the morning sun shall raise his car
The ceremony?
Welcome, Mark Antony.
I dare adventure to be sent to the Tower.
Set your entreatments at a higher rate
Aufidius got off.
Exit IAGO
To LEONTES
When I am alone, why, then I am Tranio;
And given me justice, justice, justice, justice!
As doth a raven on a sick-fall'n beast,
With that which we lovers entitle affected.
I hoped thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife;
When, both your voices blended, the great'st taste
There is no help;
For following her affairs. Put in his legs.
let's ha' some sport with 'em.
Exit ELBOW
remember thy courtesy; I beseech thee, apparel thy
Troy must not be, nor goodly Ilion stand;
The lord protector lost it, and not I:
So buxom, blithe, and full of face,
Will your grace command me any service to the
Take to you no hard thoughts:
And hum at good Cominius, much unhearts me.
At heel of that, defy him.
She for an Edward weeps, and so do I;
the silly cheat. Gallows and knock are too powerful
Do as the carrion does, not as the flower,
Whilst yet with Parthian blood thy sword is warm,
So have I heard and do in part believe it.
Where we, in all her trim, freshly beheld
DON
Humbly, sir, I thank you.
But since your ladyship is not at leisure,
Here come more voices.
gown for thy master's use!
Son of Polixenes, with his princess, she
shook your back.
Do so conjointly meet, let not men say
His pester'd senses to recoil and start,
And how was that ta'en up?
He thinks, being twenty times of better fortune,
Celestial as thou art, O, pardon, love, this wrong,
Nothing certainer:
Those mouthed wounds, which valiantly he took
Alice, tu as ete en Angleterre, et tu parles bien le langage.
Come on, brave soldiers: doubt not of the day,
Even in your hearts, there will he rake for it:
Would he were a Trojan!
Look what you do, you do it still i' the dark.
And with a heart new-fired I follow you,
so likes your music, that he desires you, for love's
Guarded with grandsires, babies and old women,
That stands upon the swell at full of tide,
Then slip I from her bum, down topples she,
Wave thus, to express his disposition,
the ears of profiting, that what thou speakest may
Enter BUCKINGHAM
but with all duteous love
And reason coldly of your grievances,
You bid me seek redemption of the devil:
I dare thereupon pawn the moiety of my estate to
You, mistress, all this coil is 'long of you:
My spirits, as in a dream, are all bound up.
Nay, but my letters, by this means being there
Sorrow breaks seasons and reposing hours,
Of our design. He bears himself more proudlier,
O brave young prince! thy famous grandfather
O cross! too high to be enthrall'd to low.
Are pluck'd up root and all by Bolingbroke,
When it concerns the fool or coward. On:
No, he must die. But so: I hear him coming.
I care not.
Navarre shall be the wonder of the world;
And hold their manhoods cheap whiles any speaks
His bruised helmet and his bended sword
Have broken with the king; who hath so far
SCENE IV. Ephesus. A room in CERIMON's house.
All is well ended, if this suit be won,
No nightingale: look, love, what envious streaks
had you rather lead mine eyes, or eye your master's heels?
Assuredly you know me.
And will, no doubt, be found.
An if we live, we live to tread on kings;
God will in justice ward you as his soldiers;
Good words, Thersites.
But cardinal sins and hollow hearts I fear ye:
Unless they seek for hatred at my hands;
Of noble bachelors stand at my bestowing,
Exit
Let me embrace thee, sour adversity,
Now you have taken the pains to set it together,
'Tis mine; and this will witness outwardly,
miracle: yet, in a sort, lechery eats itself.
Asses are made to bear, and so are you.
Upon the next encounter yields him ours.
It shall be eased, if France can yield relief.
now o'er-reaches; one that would circumvent God,
Hot questrists after him, met him at gate;
Sir, I have upon a high and pleasant hill
Know'st thou Fluellen?
Even by your own.
forsooth, to search his house for his wife's love.
I am ill at reckoning; it fitteth the spirit of a tapster.
attending.
I'ld give it to undo the deed. O lady,
Exit
time, have you heard her say?
Thou art so fat-witted, with drinking of old sack
Whose naked natures live in an the spite
I saw him at the Duke Alencon's once;
Ne'er may he live to see a sunshine day,
This way, or not at all, stand you in hope.
In, boy; go first. You houseless poverty,--
I have forgot the map.
lieutenant is to be saved before the ancient. Let's
planetary influence; and all that we are evil in,
Re-purchased with the blood of enemies.
And  [Censorinus,]  nobly named so,
Perchance the cardinal cannot make your peace;
I have no gift at all in shrewishness;
Strikes him
hour is fixed; the match is made. Would any man
How London doth pour out her citizens!
For God doth know how many now in health
Unto our climatures and countrymen.--
And ostentation of despised arms?
That murder'd Pompey.
I'll be sworn--
Shall do and undo as him pleaseth best.
Why, so! then am I sure of victory.
Thus, what with the war, what with the sweat, what
No squire in debt, nor no poor knight;
Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy,
I am not worthy yet to wear: I shall, assuredly.
Aside
Exeunt ISABELLA, LUCIO, and Provost
Re-enter MISTRESS FORD
Tut, I am in their bosoms, and I know
And here's a lord,--come knights from east to west,
Rebuke me not for that which you provoke:
And think, perchance, they'll sell; if not,
But thou wilt brave me with these saucy terms?
Deliver him to safety; and return,
So am I purposed.
First, to thy sacred state wish I all happiness.
Depart untouch'd.
Damn her, lewd minx! O, damn her!
That's a degree to love.
Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers,
No, not till a hot January.
If any think brave death outweighs bad life
And credulous to false prints.
I will be squared by this. I do believe
I have ta'en a due and wary note upon't:
Disclaiming here the kindred of the king,
And are the cities, that I got with wounds,
Into the clustering battle of the French;
Of true sincerity? O, holy sir,
What?
Let him that is no coward nor no flatterer,
What other
I may quarter, coz.
in my tent.
Go, hide thee behind the arras: the rest walk up
Good majesty,
I am that flower,--
women in men's apparel, and smell like Bucklersbury
Deceive me not now, Navarre is infected.
To CORDELIA
SCENE V. A room in Cymbeline's palace.
Hark, countrymen! either renew the fight,
They converse apart
I were the fairest goddess on the ground:
Yet for this once, yea, superstitiously,
Digest it with a custom, I should blush
shall be such to Cressid as what envy can say worst
From these old arms and legs, by the good gods,
Because I will not jump with common spirits
You'll never meet a more sufficient man.
a villain that says such a father begot villains.
In such a night
Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the king.
Thus with imagined wing our swift scene flies
If from the field I shall return once more
What should you do, but knock 'em down by the
Began to give me ground: but I followed me close,
Can advise me like you: be to yourself
In so entitling me, and no less honest
Master Deep-vow, and Master Copperspur, and Master
The provost knows our purpose and our plot.
Spoke with the king and have procured his leave
There is no remedy; I must cony-catch; I must shift.
to leave the dam.
O Rosalind! these trees shall be my books
This precious book of love, this unbound lover,
faith, at the latter end of a sea-coal fire.
Your friends are well and have them much commended.
There's enough to make us all.
A goodly apple rotten at the heart:
With a wench.
To him or our authorities. For an end,
Are all I can return. Beseech your lordship,
Enter KING HENRY VI with a supplication, and the QUEEN with SUFFOLK'S head, BUCKINGHAM and Lord SAY
The little casket bring me hither.
his chin: indeed, she has a marvellous white hand, I
Now let me see if I can construe it: 'Hic ibat
Establish him in his true sense again,
'Lo, Jupiter is yonder, dealing life!'
The large Achilles, on his press'd bed lolling,
Ever love Caesar so?
'Tis a villain, sir,
That is Laertes,
We think not so, my lord.
Bring them before us.
I am in parliament pledge for his truth
I have.
As late I have been, I not know: thy pulse
Nay, forward, old man; do not break off so;
When as the one is wounded with the bait,
As true hearts cannot bear.
That I have been thus pleasant with you both.
And how unwillingly I left the ring,
To hold your slaughtering hands and keep the peace.
Among fresh female buds shall you this night
To expel him thence. I think he'll be to Rome
At upper end o' the table, now i' the middle;
politic; he crossed himself by 't: and I cannot
It does, my boy:
May all the building in my fancy pluck
As who, my lord?
Banish'd this frail sepulchre of our flesh,
What! wherein Talbot overcame? is't so?
Whiles thou art waking.
And, for the morning now is something worn,
Or in my life what comfort, when I am
sugar-candy to make thee long-winded, if thy pocket
And when I told thee he was of my counsel
Throw down, my son, the Duke of Norfolk's gage.
Music
The very time Aumerle and you did talk.
My worth unknown, no loss is known in me.
I would not for the world they saw thee here.
Keeping some gold
I should think this a gull, but that the
Live thou, I live: with much, much more dismay
What, keep a week away? seven days and nights?
One scene of it comes near the circumstance
Would you were half so honest!
With inky blots and rotten parchment bonds:
Nor shall it, Harry; for the hour is come
Being in night, all this is but a dream,
In Ilion, on your Greekish embassy.
Wife, mother, child, I know not. My affairs
excessive grief the enemy to the living.
Where of the execution did cry out
What wert thou, if the King of Naples heard thee?
I have to-night dispatched sixteen businesses, a
very strange beasts, which in all tongues are called fools.
Therefore my age is as a lusty winter,
that I love thee. I will not say, pity me; 'tis
And follow'd with the general throng and sweat
Say then, who dost thou mean shall be her king?
Upon the present state, whose numbers threaten;
That thou commend it strangely to some place
It is a business of some heat: the galleys
And I for Ganymede.
By Caius Marcius Coriolanus, whom
Hold hard the breath and bend up every spirit
cardinally given, might have been accused in
'Tis south the city mills--bring me word thither
In most accepted pain.
Exit an Attendant
Ability in means and choice of friends,
More sharp than filed steel, did spur me forth;
To make this contract grow: but barren hate,
Aside
Not moved by Antony.
From Silvius, sir.
Descend to darkness and the burning lake!
Even this ill night, your breathing shall expire,
The source of this our watch and the chief head
And, if one arm's embracement will content thee,
Can he be there in person? 'tis impossible;
hour, I will tell true. Let me see: Spurio, a
Once for thy spritely comfort, and ten-fold
Vouchsafe, defused infection of a man,
Look, how thou diest! look, how thy eye turns pale!
her husband.
Nor longer stay in your curst company.
Exeunt Antipholus of Syracuse and Dromio of Syracuse to the Priory
not.
I could marry this wench for this device.
with you: I'll see if his head will stand steadier
Even with the bloody payment of your deaths:
That as his worthy deeds did claim no less
Have you forgot all sense of place and duty?
Sitting in the sun under the dove-house wall;
God's will! I pray thee, wish not one man more.
I am as well acquainted here as I was in our house
These arms of mine shall be thy winding-sheet;
Mercutio, thou consort'st with Romeo,--
What scene of death hath Roscius now to act?
They use to write it on the top of letters: 'twill
Praised!
Upon my smiles. Go, get thee from me, Cromwell;
Or those that with the fineness of their souls
Be gone! I will not hear thy vain excuse;
the windy side of care. My cousin tells him in his
For shame! never stand 'you had rather' and 'you
Ay, mistress bride, hath that awaken'd you?
To make thee full of growing. Noble Banquo,
By you relieved, would force me to my duty:
Which do not be entreated to, but weigh
Ye shall, my Lord.
In characters,
Not sad, my lord.
master agree? I have brought him a present. How
business of the master the author of the servant's
What was he that did make it? See, my lord,
There left behind and settled certain French;
Hearty thanks:
And would have armour here out of the Tower,
To ROSALINE
O, in the battle think on Buckingham,
And as a suitor will I give him this.
Thy honesty and love doth mince this matter,
It hath been sung at festivals,
Sirrah Biondello, go and entreat my wife
security enough to make fellowships accurst: much
My most dear lord!
Well, call them again. I am not made of stone,
Not he alone shall suffer what wit can make heavy
His corporal motion govern'd by my spirit.
An if my word be sterling yet in England,
I have it not about me.
That won three fields of Sultan Solyman,
Behold, the French amazed vouchsafe a parle;
Let proof speak.
Now, my good sweet honey lord, ride with us
In any of their courts.
Here in the churchyard; yet I will adventure.
Where one on his side fights, thousands will fly.
To worry lambs and lap their gentle blood,
I do believe thee: live.
And yet he hath given me satisfying reasons:
The lady speaks again in Welsh
For hither will our friends repair to us.
I mean thou shalt, we'll bar thee from succession;
none; why, none: a slipper and subtle knave, a
Is quite beyond mine arm, out of the blank
The undoing of yourself: let the world see
Do so, good Messala.
To weep; whose every passion fully strives
And I, of ladies most deject and wretched,
And bowl'd to death with turnips!
There had she not been long, but she became
When were you wont to use my sister thus?
It were a shame to call her back again
When he was personal in the Irish war.
Enter BLUNT
Or if thou hast not broke from company
For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
stocks: and what think you he hath confessed?
Exeunt
And slew your fathers, and with colours spread
Paris and I kiss evermore for him.
COUNTESS
Which made me think a man a worm: my son
That were a state fit for his holiness.
Consider who the king your father sends,
Rated mine uncle from the council-board;
A showing of a heavenly effect in an earthly actor.
gentility with my education. This is it, Adam, that
sir in. Very good; well kissed! an excellent
pleasure: if his fitness speaks, mine is ready; now
Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason
O, courage, courage, princes! great Achilles
And those that you'll procure from King Leontes--
That I was shipp'd at sea, I well remember,
Here.
Lords, view these letters full of bad mischance.
more since.
For our access, whose hap shall be to have her
Be it by gins, by snares, by subtlety,
And fitter is my study and my books
Like one of two contending in a prize,
Come, temperate nymphs, and help to celebrate
selling the dukedom of Maine.
And say it is the queen and her allies
This accident is not unlike my dream:
Exit RUGBY
Beating him
o with me to the duchess.
How is't, brother!
Away, I say! stay'st thou to vex me here?
And 'twixt them rushes; underneath whose arm
Thine, Claudio; thine, I say.
so I, being Master Parson, am Master Parson; for,
Ceremony was but devised at first
could drive her then from the ward of her purity,
not so much as a ducat for delivering your letter:
Such instigations have been often dropp'd
To give her the avaunt! it is a pity
that this is no time to lend money, especially upon
Away, and mock the time with fairest show:
And his old hate unto you; besides, forget not
In London streets, that coronation-day,
art hanged. This is to Lord Timon; this to
through ford and whirlipool e'er bog and quagmire;
No; he doth but mistake the truth totally.
she answers thee with frowning looks, I'll sauce her
Nay, you must forget that.
Together with my practise, made familiar
So, by your circumstance, I fear you'll prove.
Can ransom me into his love again,
Swear priests and cowards and men cautelous,
Shook down my mellow hangings, nay, my leaves,
Warwick, this is some post to us or thee.
What manner of man?
Than by the tiger; but when the splitting wind
The noble Brutus is ascended: silence!
My prayers, minx!
Exeunt
Which are as easy broke as they make forms.
Lest leaden slumber peise me down to-morrow,
That I have worn a visor and could tell
Pursue him, ho! Go after.
Caesar; for he swounded and fell down at it: and
Upon  a knife, 'Love me, and leave me not.'
Is Signior Lucentio within, sir?
When Hector's grandsire suck'd: he is old now;
Better to leave undone, than by our deed
A prodigy of fear and a portent
Exeunt
SCENE IV. Another part of the field.
Doomsday is near; die all, die merrily.
To call thyself Marina.
Fit I meet them.
censure worse than drunkards.
us, do we not die? and if you wrong us, shall we not
His oration to his Army
Expire before their fashions.' This he wish'd;
No noble rite nor formal ostentation--
Lord Edmund spake not with your lord at home?
Note, if your lady strain his entertainment
The walls of thy dear honour, keep unshaked
A man is master of his liberty:
This wine for Lepidus!
bloods between fourteen and five-and-thirty?
And fled he is upon this villany.
The sleepers of the house? speak, speak!
on the death of the deer? And, to humour the
Certes, she did; the kitchen-vestal scorn'd you.
supplied when I have made it empty.
Well, she laments, sir, for it, that it would yearn
If knowledge be the mark, to know thee shall suffice;
runs before her actions.
Shrewdness of policy too, I grieving grant
SCENE IV. Before the walls of Athens.
To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather,
What if it be a poison, which the friar
To which I thus subscribe: Sir Valentine,
The king's son have I landed by himself;
To the old dam, treason,--Charles the emperor,
Like hold on thee. Let go his arm.
We know him for no less, though we are but strangers
And soon at supper-time I'll visit you
When care, mistrust, and treason waits on him.
Then though my heart's content firm love doth bear,
Now, like a man of steel. You that will fight,
But send me Flavius first.
Were still at odds, being but three.
Hang those that talk of fear. Give me mine armour.
With blood of thine already.
Enter AJAX and THERSITES
Pale as his shirt; his knees knocking each other;
Bearing their own misfortunes on the back
[Aside]  If that go forward, Henry's hope is done.
For such kindness must relieve me,
dinner; but one that lies three thirds and uses a
Madam, your father here doth intimate
of her liking. I thank my stars I am happy. I will
Run to my study. By and by! God's will,
It is most retrograde to our desire:
And tempt not yet the brushes of the war.
Come, bring forth the prisoners.
But then AEneas bare a living load,
O, you have made good work!
Give me my steeled coat. I'll fight for France.
And hug it in mine arms.
And on the winking of authority
had never been born.
please all.'
rate, and that hath taught me to say this:
Re-enter PANDARUS
Where should be graven, if that right were right,
SCENE I. A Senator's house.
Long kept in Bretagne at our mother's cost?
'Tis well consented: presently away;
But I do not desire he should answer for me; and
Well, let that pass. Dorset is fled to Richmond.
And a good soldier to a lady: but what is he to a lord?
Go to; you are not, Cassius.
I must entreat you, honour me so much
in good time.
Noise and tumult within. Enter Porter and his Man
And bootless make the breathless housewife churn;
I have the toothache.
and our revolted wives share damnation together.
Most certain, if you are she, you do usurp
Will e'en but kiss Octavia, and we'll follow.
Feste, the jester, my lord; a fool that the lady
And bid them speak for me: but were I Brutus,
gravity to play at cherry-pit with Satan: hang
My master's mind.
SCENE IV. Paris. The KING's palace.
of his will.
head-pieces.
And damnable ingrateful: nor was't much,
True, uncle.
Believe it, sir, I have seen him in Britain: he was
Where will doth mutiny with wit's regard.
That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,
From Rome all season'd office and to wind
However, yet there is no great breach; when it comes,
without, I know he will choose it. I will do any
Exeunt all but BEDFORD and Attendants
Think not the king did banish thee,
Of this make no conclusion, lest you say
the dove, crowned with an earl's coronet.
wonderful. The best courtier of them all, when the
Wilt thou be lord of all the world?
To take her in her heart's extremest hate,
But in the gross and scope of my opinion,
She is not well; but yet she has her health: she's
He calls to horse; but will I know not whither.
Than yours, my lord.
What is your news?
Some horrible conceit: if thou dost love me,
For I can guess that by thy honest aid
What faults he made before the last, I think
Still neighbour mine. My ships are ready and
I'll play the housewife for this once. What, ho!
In bearing thus the absence of your lord.
That ever graced me in thy company?
Brought to this shore; and by my prescience
Yet tell her of it: hear what she will say.
As soul to soul affordeth?
I long that we were safe and sound aboard.
instance and argument to commend themselves: I
Enter PRINCE, with Attendants
That mount the Capitol; join gripes with hands
And out of you she sees herself more proper
The seas and winds, old wranglers, took a truce
Go great with tigers, dragons, wolves, and bears;
But only slaughter'd by the ireful arm
If it be thus to dream, still let me sleep!
It is not honesty in me to speak
I'll prove the lie thou speak'st.
Not much employment for you: you understand me?
Will be my knell. Go, play, boy, play.
There was, mine host, an old fat woman even now with
Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
Besides, the lottery of my destiny
Ere three days pass, which hath as long loved me
During my life; and, to confirm his goodness,
Made to my father, while his blood was poor,
It might, my lord.
Should without issue die, he'll carry it so
I thank you. Here comes the count.
drowning thyself! it is clean out of the way: seek
Within this twelvemonth, or turn thou no more
Northumberland, say thus the king returns:
Tradition, form and ceremonious duty,
Base is the slave that pays.
To BELARIUS
For both of you are birds of selfsame feather.
Re-enter YOUNG CLIFFORD
Good Antony, your hand.
What's here? A scroll; and written round about?
That is enough to satisfy the senate.
What if he had said 'widower AEneas' too? Good Lord,
Lord of thy presence and no land beside?
Do you the office, friar; which consummate,
This royal throne of kings, this scepter'd isle,
When it is least expected.
I like him very well.
Exeunt
And ere that we will suffer such a prince,
Meet on the market-place. We'll attend you there:
Enter a Servant
That unsubstantial death is amorous,
This is some priory. In, or we are spoil'd!
exalted respect than any one else that follows her.
Must you, Sir John, protect my lady here?
like an image and says nothing, and the other too
We three here art that ne'er shall meet again.
But ere they came,--O, let me say no more!
bass-viol, in a case of leather; the man, sir,
Truly, sir, all that I live by is with the awl: I
For your dwelling,--briefly.
I prithee, recount some of them.
Expecting absent friends. As thou lovest her,
To bear with their perverse objections;
I know myself now; and I feel within me
Who, weak with age, cannot support myself:
SCENE IX. Belmont. A room in PORTIA'S house.
Now presently I'll give her father notice
For such a guest is meet.
Enter LEONATO and ANTONIO, meeting
Our appertainments, visiting of him:
And that's but unwholesome food they say.
Even with the dearest blood your bodies bear.
is, Master Page, fidelicet Master Page; and there is
boy, half French, half English, that shall go to
Enter, at the other end of the churchyard, FRIAR LAURENCE, with a lantern, crow, and spade
Shall we, upon the footing of our land,
You shall have An fool's-head of your own. No, I
Setting it up to fear the birds of prey,
Destruction straight shall dog them at the heels.
shent for speaking to you.
Should lift their bosoms higher than the shores
I cannot, by the progress of the stars,
Prithee, son, do; for we must be gentle, now we are
I arrest thee of high treason, by the name of
and if I bring thee not something to eat, I will
Why, get you gone: who is't that hinders you?
Ay, all you have laid your heads together--
with so many talents.
Give order to my servants that they take
Great Dunsinane he strongly fortifies:
Nay, tarry; I'll go along with thee
I yet beseech your majesty,--
And say poor Margaret was a prophetess!
Lay it by too: another.
No more than he'll unswear.
And but the backs of Britons seen, all flying
To thee I do commend my watchful soul,
thing, if men were as they have been. Get this done
As our best-moving fair solicitor.
Your mind is all as youthful as your blood.
All the fool mine?
His regiment lies half a mile at least
What passion hangs these weights upon my tongue?
Moon take thy flight:
sweet Benedick! God give me patience!'
I come to know what prisoners thou hast ta'en
And I mine too, good Lord!
Nay, what hope
Divide in all with us.
But that he swore to take, our lives? The law
Full of dear guiltiness; and therefore this:
Cast on my noble father.
They must be bound and laid in some dark room.
How wildly then walks my estate in France!
hasten thy trial; which if--Lord have mercy on thee
Barely in title, not in revenue.
Somewhat against our meaning, have prevented:
is his: I ha' told him on't, but I could ne'er get
Good aunt, stand up.
Anger's my meat; I sup upon myself,
And grant, as Timon grows, his hate may grow
And my reliances on his fracted dates
I have spoke long: be pleased yourself to say
Was not incensed by his subtle mother
Hear me, grave fathers! noble tribunes, stay!
As we greet modern friends withal; and say,
Re-enter Attendants with THYREUS
Is our best having.
And take my heart with thee.
Where think'st thou he is now? Stands he, or sits he?
And am right sorry that I must report ye
Because I would not tax the needy commons,
their thoughts
Nay, yet there's more in this:
exclaim against their own succession?
wit shall not go unrewarded while I am king of this
A place next to the king.
Where--O for pity!--we shall much disgrace
That they may crush down with a heavy fall
But life itself, my wife, and all the world,
[To MARINA]  Pray you, come hither awhile. You
There is a vent of blood and something blown:
Crouch for employment. But pardon, and gentles all,
A glass that feated them, and to the graver
To him that does best: God forbid else. Cardinal,
We will not from the helm to sit and weep,
should put an enemy in their mouths to steal away
the whirlwind of passion, you must acquire and beget
Till he come home again, I would forbear.
Exit
But mere implorators of unholy suits,
Say'st thou me so? What colour is this cloak of?
Good things of day begin to droop and drowse;
I can with ease produce.
And like a bated and retired flood,
The people mutinous; and it is rumour'd,
Than flatter him in a bower. Here is Cominius.
A lioness, with udders all drawn dry,
For what is wedlock forced but a hell,
I for a Clarence weep, so doth not she:
Turn all to the best! These proclamations,
Stabs him
Percy is but my factor, good my lord,
I have a mind to strike thee ere thou speak'st:
Must climb a bird's nest soon when it is dark:
My masters, let's stand close: my lord protector
Lend me an arm; the rest have worn me out
SCENE III. A public place.
Come, officer, away!
Like goodly buildings left without a roof
Come, come, beshrew your heart! you'll ne'er be good,
Cast thousand beams upon me, like the sun?
Be here presented. Now we bear the king
I am invited, sir, to certain merchants,
Within the Temple-hall we were too loud;
But now I envy at their liberty,
Enter Constable
Drest in a little brief authority,
None, but that there is so great a fever on
At Holmedon met,
Let me give light, but let me not be light;
everything that thou wilt have me.
afford her, that were she other than she is, she
Prosper it with thee! Go thou farther off;
With commendation from great potentates;
Upon these eyes of thine I'll set my foot.
Whose fault is this?
It grieves his highness: good my lords, be friends.
They converse apart
Now, my young guest, methinks you're allycholly: I
What stays had I but they? and they are gone.
Keep promise, love. Look, here comes Helena.
Who's there? my Lord AEneas! By my troth,
And she will tell you who your fellow is
Good master porter, I belong to the larder.
He will have all, I think.
Condition!
Was either pitied in him or forgotten.
It grieves me for the death of Claudio;
And tell me, noble Diomed, faith, tell me true,
sweet lord! How dost thou, good lord?' This might
Nor build their evils on the graves of great men;
And now he feasts, mousing the flesh of men,
good apothecary, to sweeten my imagination:
All comfort that the dark night can afford
In whose cold blood no spark of honour bides.
knock, knock! Who's there, i' the name of
Brother of Gloucester, you mistake the matter.
There, Leonato, take her back again:
There's reason he should be displeased at it.
So is the equal of this fell war.
Didst thou not tell me, Griffith, as thou led'st me,
Persuades me I was better when a king;
That there are unicorns, that in Arabia
This is the feast that I have bid her to,
You mean, to bear me, not to bear with me:
Because I am so dwarfish and so low?
I am attended at the cypress grove: I pray you--
How cheerfully on the false trail they cry!
I stand on fire:
Within my tent his bones to-night shall lie,
Loud shouts and salutations from their mouths,
I, then in London keeper of the king,
To climb celestial Silvia's chamber-window,
Sooth, madam, I hear nothing.
When rank Thersites opes his mastic jaws,
And let young Arthur, Duke of Bretagne, in,
Now piercing to my soul. O, thus she stood,
Hark, what good sport is out of town to-day!
Long have I been forlorn, and all for thee:
There serve your lusts, shadow'd from heaven's eye,
Known but by letter: thither write, my queen,
That, lapsed in time and passion, lets go by
I will end here.
And suffer you to breathe in fruitful peace,
The blessed gods
Of sorriest fancies your companions making,
Soft son!
The third he caper'd, and cried, 'All goes well;'
That he should hither come as this dire night,
See, lord and father, how we have perform'd
Among a mineral of metals base,
And I the matter will re-word; which madness
and nod at every man.
thou art our admiral, thou bearest the lantern in
but when he performs, astronomers foretell it; it
My name is Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk;
Were met together to rehearse a play
Might stop our countryman.
I was once before him for getting a wench with child.
Amen, amen. God save thee, noble consul!
Show me thy chink, to blink through with mine eyne!
His leg is too big for Hector's.
dull tribunes,
Content, my liege! yes, but that I am prevented,
Is to become her husband and her father:
The practise of it lives in John the bastard,
Drew on me here again.
None, but to
And make the wars alike against my stomach,
A sceptre, or an earthly sepulchre!'
'Little' again! nothing but 'low' and 'little'!
Though that my death were adjunct to my act,
Found in his pocket too; and this, it seems,
I think it freely; and betimes in the morning I will
But who is here? Lysander! on the ground!
didst know how many fathom deep I am in love! But
but, since it is as it is, mend it for your own good.
ACT V
'Tis evermore the prologue to his sleep:
familiar with men's pockets as their gloves or their
Exeunt
How is't with you, my lord
Discredit my authority with yours;
O, if I could, what grief should I forget!
modest terms; for I am one of those gentle ones
Saying, he'll lade it dry to have his way:
Has he had knowledge of it?
Suppose the ambassador from the French comes back;
To take him in the purging of his soul,
The greatest is behind.
What a pestilent knave is this same!
Her chambers are all lock'd; and there's no answer
Enter MISTRESS PAGE, MISTRESS FORD, and DOCTOR CAIUS
This goddess, this Semiramis, this nymph,
fifth, the Prince of Morocco, who brings word the
Exeunt
One face, one voice, one habit, and two persons,
You keep by land
If I chance to talk a little wild, forgive me;
He is twenty men to one.
I hope, for my brother's justification, he wrote
Enter BOTTOM
My lord, most humbly on my knee I beg
your mother's cat had but kittened, though yourself
Here on my knee I beg mortality,
Crossing the sea from England into France,
Which he did end all his; and took some pride
Thou, brother Montague, in Buckingham,
Claudio to prison? 'tis not so.
Upon this French going out, took he upon him,
Haply a woman's voice may do some good,
Qui va la?
Exit RODERIGO
Of sighs, of groans, of sorrow and of teen!
Not with the empty hollowness, but weight:
Put on my brows this wreath of victory,
Compact with her that's gone, think'st thou thy oaths,
The heavens have bless'd you with a goodly son,
And he hath brought us smooth and welcome news.
Sir John Norbery, Sir Robert Waterton and Francis Quoint,
Exit
Why, yet thy scandal were not wiped away
A lady like me, with a love even such,
That hath dishonour'd all our family;
But many a many foot of land the worse.
Fits kings, as they are men, for they may err.
buttock, or any buttock.
Gratiano!
Affront his eye.
down the Tower too. Come, let's away.
But what of Cicero? shall we sound him?
Set on your foot,
Love bade me swear and Love bids me forswear.
'His garment!' Now the devil--
Nobody come? then shall I bleed to death.
I have no other, but a woman's reason;
What, are they broken?
If you go out in your own semblance, you die, Sir
That you create your emperor's eldest son,
me; I will show you such a necessity in his death
Full half an hour.
He that perforce robs lions of their hearts
With all the effect of love.
How like, methought, I then was to this kernel,
He makes important: possess'd he is with greatness,
But shift away: there's warrant in that theft
He hath done good service, lady, in these wars.
Indeed, my lord,
No, I'll none of you.
Put up your sword. If this young gentleman
He's all my exercise, my mirth, my matter,
When I'll depose I had him in mine arms
Strike up the drums; and let the tongue of war
Receiveth as the sea, nought enters there,
To fall and blast her pride!
What you have been ere now, and what you are;
I therefore apprehend and do attach thee
After some question with him, was converted
Shake quoth the dove-house: 'twas no need, I trow,
This way will I disrobe the images,
In their distractions; they now are in my power;
Yea, strike the Dauphin blind to look on us.
I thank my liege, that in regard of me
Would not the beggar then forget himself?
As mad in folly, lack'd the sense to know
Farewell, my lord. Light to my chamber, ho!
Against the Romans with Cassibelan,
'Tis thine they give away, and not their own.
They say you are a melancholy fellow.
How now, my lords! what, all unready so?
In me it seems it will make wise men mad.
Was it not to refresh the mind of man
I know from whence this same device proceeds:
Lepidus is high-coloured.
Love is merely a madness, and, I tell you, deserves
But carries on the stream of his dispose
I do not, sir.
We three are married, but you two are sped.
Then did they imitate that which I composed to my
cloak-bag of guts, that roasted Manningtree ox with
But I confess, sir, that we were lock'd out.
men, though it be the getting of children. Here
Remember to have heard: man's nature cannot carry
For which I will divide my crown with her,
It bears an angry tenor: pardon me:
He will stay till ye come.
Who in that sale sells pardon from himself,
The fearful difference of incensed kings:
As if they vow'd some league inviolable:
Is it possible dat I sould love de enemy of France?
Lord Say, Jack Cade hath sworn to have thy head.
At all times alike
SCENE IV. Another part of the forest.
You are potently opposed; and with a malice
Here's a good world! Knew you of this fair work?
Unto the rigour of severest law.
instruct her in it and compel her to some second
A charge sounded
Didst perceive it?
His remedies are tame i' the present peace
And when he heard him swear and vow to God
Pat, pat; and here's a marvellous convenient place
Which, like your asses and your dogs and mules,
Wilt thou at Ninny's tomb meet me straightway?
Nor I no more of his, than you of mine.
That Phaethon should cheque thy fiery steeds,
Sir king, all hail! the gods preserve you!
O, that our fathers would applaud our loves,
True ornaments to know a holy man.
With the first glance that ever--pardon me--
Cease; no more.
Well then, alone, since there's no remedy,
So to esteem of us, and on our knees we beg,
No, that's certain; I am not a double man: but if I
come; I'll take my leave of the Jew in the twinkling of an eye.
She could have run and waddled all about;
The savage bull may; but if ever the sensible
Fear not, my lord: we can contain ourselves,
A drop of Grecian blood: the end crowns all,
Adieu; be happy!
O, could this kiss be printed in thy hand,
Now get you to my lady's chamber, and tell her, let
'Tis sweating labour
Walks, like contempt, alone. More of our fellows.
I must fetch his necessaries ashore. Farewell.
For me, if I be gored with Mowbray's spear:
Re-enter LE BEAU
Beaumont and Marle, Vaudemont and Lestrale.
All hot and bleeding will we offer them:
I'll force thee yield to my desire.
Some wine, boys!
Honour and fortunes, keep with you, Lord Timon!
Exeunt
yourself and all the world know to be no petter
This is the hole where Aaron bid us hide him.
[Reads]	Hermione is chaste;
For such proceeding I am charged withal,
That's he indeed.
O, speak to me no more;
Whose dimpled smiles from fools exhaust their mercy;
I come to bring him sleep. 'Tis such as you,
Who have we here?
to lie in mine own throat.
Good night.
Enter in mourning habits, VIRGILIA, VOLUMNIA, leading young MARCIUS, VALERIA, and Attendants
means your grace?
ANTIPHOLUS
I will desist;
It is, because no one should sway but he;
abstract for the remembrance of such places, and
Who is the first that doth prefer himself?
And whiter than the sheets! That I might touch!
The custom of request you have discharged:
Rive your concealing continents, and cry
My lord, you do me shameful injury,
Only for praise sake, when they strive to be
Show them the unaching scars which I should hide,
methinks I am marvellous hairy about the face; and I
Not in the legions
It may be probable she lost it; or
Give me your hand. Art thou learned?
Never was waves nor wind more violent;
That burn by day and night: and then I loved thee
Why, so it would have done at the same season, if
Your servant's servant is your servant, madam.
For York in justice puts his armour on.
Haply to wive and thrive as best I may:
A good lenten answer: I can tell thee where that
Why, what art thou?
the tinker! Starveling! God's my life, stolen
Than prosecute the meanest or the best
Thou'lt torture me to leave unspoken that
To have a godly peace concluded of
I can tell thee pretty tales of the duke.
[Beneath]  Swear.
And lived by looking on his images:
Nay, mock not, mock not. The body of your
This stain upon her?
scour, dress meat and drink, make the beds and do
That our great king himself doth woo me oft
There, where your argosies with portly sail,
Then weep no more. I'll send to one in Mantua,
Gentlemen,
Your grace's pardon, and I hope I had it.
Is mustering in his clouds on our behalf
And, by my faith, this league that we have made
where his codpiece seems as massy as his club?
To grace the gentry of a land remote,
Not a jot more, my lord.
Thou shouldst a husband take by my consent,
Where is thy husband now? where be thy brothers?
Which of the peers
Of your fresh princess; o'er and o'er divides him
What to delight in, what to sorrow for.
I pray thee, do not mock me, fellow-student;
When every thing seems double.
Boy, what sign is it when a man of great spirit
Great rivals in our youngest daughter's love,
My honour's at the stake; which to defeat,
innocency Adam fell; and what should poor Jack
Here PROSPERO discovers FERDINAND and MIRANDA playing at chess
The fairest grant is the necessity.
Or Daphne roaming through a thorny wood,
But, for his purpose in the coronation.
[Aside]  Glamis, and thane of Cawdor!
Ere you were queen, yea, or your husband king,
Marry. God forbid!
To leave this place. Albeit you have deserved
Divides one thing entire to many objects;
The pride upon them, that their very labour
His noble nephew here in virtue's nest,
Patroclus kisses you.
He that is yours, sweet lady.
Why did you wish me milder? would you have me
Ay, boy, it's for love.
And foreign mart for implements of war;
I have another weapon in this chamber;
Wounds his arm
I saw Bassanio and Antonio part:
For a hawk, a horse, or a husband?
Will you be put in mind of his blind fortune,
opinion; which, bettered with his own learning, the
word of mouth; set upon Aguecheek a notable report
different names--sure, more,--and these are of the
I would you did but see how it chafes, how it rages,
letter: but let thine inherit first; for, I
What shouts are these? The other side o' the city
Have done with words, my lords, and hear me speak.
Upon the stroke of four.
I will chop her into messes: cuckold me!
How called you the man you speak of, madam?
'But a drum'! is't 'but a drum'? A drum so lost!
Before a sleeping giant.' Tell him so.
O grave and good Paulina, the great comfort
O, thou wilt speak again of banishment.
'Od's lifelings, here he is! You broke my head for
Then fools you were these women to forswear,
The excuse that thou dost make in this delay
And leaving so his service, follow you,
The hand of death hath raught him.
We know the time since he was mild and affable,
Commits itself to yours to be directed,
What Troy means fairly shall be spoke aloud.
is slow of; of her purse she shall not, for that
Reveal how thou at sea didst lose thy wife:
Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood
That he should be so abject, base and poor,
Put on thee by my lord, thou ne'er shalt see
May have the world in empire!
But is he gracious in the people's eye?
About the hour of eight, which he himself
have her, Master Brook; Master Brook, you shall
I pray you, sir, walk in.
When birds do sing, hey ding a ding, ding:
From thine invention, offers: women are not
[Aside to POMPEY]  If for the sake of merit thou
amazed, he will every way be mocked.
And this same bias, this Commodity,
Where did you find it, then?
These letters come from your father.
Plainly as heaven sees earth and earth sees heaven,
speak it to you, I think the king is but a man, as I
well. Your brother is but young and tender; and,
And manners, to intrude where I am graced;
Which gape and rub the elbow at the news
Son, I have overheard what hath passed between you
Between these swelling wrong-incensed peers.
Provokes itself and like the current flies
I'll believe both;
And in his bosom spend my latter gasp:
Exit
wrote to Pompey; upon his own appeal, seizes him: so
Good.
SCENE III. Before Angiers.
The throned monarch better than his crown;
Where Scotland?
to the determination of justice: yet had he framed
Although they were flesh'd villains, bloody dogs,
And public reasons shall be rendered
That would to cinders burn up modesty,
There was no link to colour Peter's hat,
And entrails feed the sacrificing fire,
ACT V
But, like a misbehaved and sullen wench,
Neither, fair saint, if either thee dislike.
We do debase ourselves, cousin, do we not,
And there awake God's gentle-sleeping peace.
Tell him the emperor and the empress too
Well, there's for you: leave us.
SCENE V. Mytilene. A street before the brothel.
am I myself?
What's the need?
And did upbraid me with my father's death:
Renege, affirm, and turn their halcyon beaks
Let us, like merchants, show our foulest wares,
Strangle such thoughts as these with any thing
Either you must
My uncle Rivers talk'd how I did grow
for a week escape a great deal of discoveries; but
Come, your reason, Jack, your reason.
So are they all; for every grise of fortune
And he that brings his head unto the king
But stop my house's ears, I mean my casements:
'Tis pity they should take him for a stag.
France et vous etes mienne. It is as easy for me,
Thy ambition,
Let Alcibiades know this of Timon,
Our tongue is rough, coz, and my condition is not
Thou'rt my good youth, my page;
Yes, they have.
And so offend him; for I tell you, sirs,
Would make them capable. Do not look upon me;
Before thy most assured overthrow:
Lady, you know no rules of charity,
No, no; you must play Pyramus: and, Flute, you Thisby.
As never did the clergy at one time
How does my good Lord Hamlet?
I pray you, school yourself: but for your husband,
Thy honourable metal may be wrought
Here an alarum, and it thunders and lightens
And, look, what notes and garments he doth give thee,
Knowing I know thy love to Theseus?
Which patience could not pass.
Tanta est erga te mentis integritas, regina
To gaze upon a ruinous monastery;
That can my speech defuse, my good intent
Mistress Kate Keepdown was with child by him in the
Now, good Metellus, go along by him:
Sirrah, go you to Barthol'mew my page,
It stops me here; it is too much of joy:
Doth Fortune play the huswife with me now?
Crust you quite o'er! What, dost thou go?
Write from us to him; post-post-haste dispatch.
There is no following her in this fierce vein:
His insolence draws folly from my lips;
With cheques as flatteries,--when they are seen abused.
Your boldest suit of mirth, for we have friends
Our true intent is. All for your delight
Go, get thee to thy love, as was decreed,
Jack shall have Jill;
That nor my service past, nor present sorrows,
Or take his life there: this if she perform,
Ay, by my beard, will we, for he's a proper man.
My liege! my lord! but now a king, now thus.
You have, by fortune and his highness' favours,
Christendom.
Bleat softly then; the butcher hears you cry.
And part your mingled colours once again;
The Count Rousillon: know you such a one?
Men all in fire walk up and down the streets.
Here is her father's house; I'll call aloud.
Is not much miss'd, but with his friends:
Confound and swallow navigation up;
despised for the contrary. There's a medlar for
Hath been enacted through your enmity;
Did represent my master's blushing cheeks,
Whose arms were moulded in their mothers' womb
You cataracts and hurricanoes, spout
His tongue obey'd his hand: who were below him
When we have here her base and pillar by us.
Tell him, so please him come unto this place,
Against their father, fool me not so much
must, for my own honour, if he come in: therefore,
Thorough the hazards of this untrod state
hanged, and then to confess.--I tremble at it.
I will, sir.
Hold, there's expenses for thee.
I am glad to see your honour in good health.
You, cousin Hereford, upon pain of life,
Because his painted skin contents the eye?
We were not all unkind, nor all deserve
Thy son is banish'd upon good advice,
A strange fellow here
Is cold in amity and painted peace,
the peace.
To bear him to my bower in fairy land.
They say he yesterday coped Hector in the battle and
Servant, you are welcome to a worthless mistress.
father and the gentlemen are in sad talk, and we'll
Then cannot we be bought: and so, adieu;
All given to mine ear.
How much you were my conqueror; and that
Whether yond troops are friend or enemy.
ACT V
And do you, Gratiano, mean good faith?
call. Bully knight! bully Sir John! speak from
Now cannot I strike him, if I should be hanged.
Who shall take notice of thee: I'll move the king
more tavern-bills; which are often the sadness of
And I believe, it is a fetch of wit:
When she did suckle Hector, look'd not lovelier
And to thy worth will add right worthy gains.
pleasure: if your love do not persuade you to come,
Lo, how he mocks me! wilt thou let him, my lord?
In the wars; and that may you be bold to say in your foolery.
To feast and sport us at thy father's house.
With walking once about the quadrangle,
Against the state and profit of this land;
In that he wears the badge of Somerset.
The gods preserve ye!
And stole into the covert of the wood:
Against the invulnerable clouds of heaven;
[To NORFOLK and SUFFOLK]
The theme of our assembly.
So, Green, thou art the midwife to my woe,
Than this kind kiss. O Lord, that lends me life,
That would be howl'd out in the desert air,
There, Coriolanus.
of him: how he jets under his advanced plumes!
Which, if my augury deceive me not,
Enter GHOST and HAMLET
I'll woo you like a soldier, at arms' end,
Turn me away; and let the foul'st contempt
as Horace says in his--What, my soul, verses?
While you here do snoring lie,
sensible man, by and by a fool, and presently a
An arm as big as thine? a heart as big?
Will bring this labour to an happy end.
That, his apparent open guilt omitted,
compulsion! If reasons were as plentiful as
Repairs him with occasion? This happy day
You met him half in heaven: my vows and prayers
It becomes thy oath full well,
Who sued to me for him? who, in my rage,
Great king, within this coffin I present
Third, or fourth, or fifth borough, I'll answer him
To see my friends in Padua, but of all
If he love Caesar, all that he can do
Do all they deny her? An they were sons of mine,
Enter VARRIUS
Yes, I thank God I am as honest as any man living
Let Mars divide eternity in twain,
And once again bestride our foaming steeds,
Dew-lapp'd like bulls, whose throats had hanging at 'em
Step into the chamber, Sir John.
Will, hand in hand, all headlong cast us down.
make another curtsy and say 'Father, as it please
yet who picked my pocket?
Iden, kneel down.
Even to the court, the heart, to the seat o' the brain;
Scruple, and prick, on certain speeches utter'd
Not yet.
SCENE II. Another room in the same.
Then be thou jocund: ere the bat hath flown
Edmund, enkindle all the sparks of nature,
My cherry lips have often kiss'd thy stones,
Going
heal your pate.
Whom the blind waves and surges have devour'd.
I should do Brutus wrong, and Cassius wrong,
Each in his office ready at thy beck.
A right good mark-man! And she's fair I love.
Look, what thy soul holds dear, imagine it
As I before unparted to your worship,
SCENE II. The same. Pandarus' orchard.
How beauteous mankind is! O brave new world,
and the stony-hearted villains know it well enough:
A herald, Kate? O, put me in thy books!
Why, lords, what wrongs are these! was ever seen
Mates, maid! how mean you that? no mates for you,
Enter OBERON and TITANIA with their train
there's some boot.
Not so, my lord.
Enter the army of the Volsces
Give me fresh garments. Mine own, Helicanus;
Upon thy princely warrant, I descend
For Brutus' sake, I am beholding to you.
Her name is Katharina Minola,
must give folks leave to prate: what, the good-jer!
Shall we dance now the Egyptian Bacchanals,
about my heart: but it is no matter.
No, nor nowhere else but in your brain.
'Tis the old Nestor.
Nay, I am sure she does. She came to him th' other
That put Armado's page out of his part!
Which means she to deceive, father or mother?
We'll measure them a measure, and be gone.
Hath look'd upon my passes. Then, good prince,
So far from cheer and from your former state,
Bear thee well in it and leave us alone.
Ere you depart: and thanks to stay and eat it.
Lead their successes as we wish our own,
You shall not need, my fellow peers of Tyre,
Nor shall not now: for in companions
Almost in Christendom: shortly, I believe,
Re-enter PATROCLUS
Then old and fond of issue, took such sorrow
ANTIPHOLUS
That I account them blessings; for by these
Which is the duke's own person?
Before the eyes of both our armies here,
Thy ignominy sleep with thee in the grave,
Of any true decision. Nature craves
If he had done or said any thing amiss, he desired
Will you stay no longer? nor will you not that I go with you?
'After my flame lacks oil, to be the snuff
Some mark of virtue on his outward parts:
A most wicked Sir Oliver, Audrey, a most vile
Go to, then; your considerate stone.
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH, and SIR ANDREW
to your lips? would they were clyster-pipes for your sake!
What would your ladyship?
None but a holy hermit and her maid.
Enter POMPEY
Well; what's your suit?
For we intend so to dispose you as
To bid me trudge:
for yours. If you think I come hither as a lion, it
If God prevent not, I purpose so.
As well descended as thyself; and hath
And let me all your fortunes understand.
And, for my name of George begins with G,
That it's had it head bit off by it young.
this controversy.
I stole into a neighbour thicket by,
[Within]  Let him knock till it ache.
To pluck me by the beard.
For my confections? Having thus far proceeded,--
And had the tribute of his supple knee,
A trade, sir, that, I hope, I may use with a safe
[To KING RICHARD III]
To this fair island and the territories,
Shall secretly into the bosom creep
Pray you, let Cassio be received again.
The pith and marrow of our attribute.
sing a note, sometime through the throat, as if you
Go with him, sirrah.
Where am I? Where's my lord? What world is this?
Or had he 'scaped, methinks we should have heard
It is a damned and a bloody work;
After long absence, such is yours: most welcome!
No.
To reconcile me to his friendly peace:
Blame not this haste of mine. If you mean well,
To Eltham will I, where the young king is,
Must, like a whore, unpack my heart with words,
For two; and sound ones too.
[Within]  Who's within there? ho!
howsoever it seems not in him by some large jests
His burthenous taxations notwithstanding,
so conclusions passed the careires.
Uncertain of the issue any way.
And I am sent to tell his majesty
bestowed much honour on a young Florentine called Claudio.
Sleep thou, and I will wind thee in my arms.
day is hot, and the weather, and the wars, and the
Enter RICHARD PLANTAGENET
SCENE I. Britain. The Roman camp.
Exit
Exit
Of Harry Percy and the Prince of Wales.
As thunder when the clouds in autumn crack.
No master, sir, but a poor man's son: his father,
A private man in Athens: this for him.
[Within]                Let her come in.
Set 't down, let's look upon't.
Marry, sir, I think, if you handled her privately,
And after scandal them, or if you know
To answer all the city.
The night of dew that on my cheeks down flows:
And therefore let me have him home with me.
Implored your highness' pardon and set forth
I dare not confess that, lest I should compare with
This tongue had not offended so to-day,
Our griefs, and not our manners, reason now.
And change your favours too; so shall your loves
One friend to take his fortune by the arm,
My manors, rents, revenues I forego;
Enter ALONSO, SEBASTIAN, ANTONIO, GONZALO, ADRIAN, FRANCISCO, and others
Let me not burst in ignorance; but tell
O most profane coxcomb!
from his judge, but most willingly humbles himself
Is it come to this?
signet is not strange to you.
The kings that have revolted, and the soldier
Why ask you? hear you aught of her in yours?
For I must use thee.
With him along is come the mother-queen,
Out--
Nay, nay, let Rape and Murder stay with me;
Adopts thee heir, and his high sceptre yields
His welcomes forth; asks thee the son forgiveness,
O well done! I commend your pains;
three but jumps twelve foot and a half by the squier.
Thou shalt not need. England, I will fall from thee.
How if the kiss be denied?
Save ceremony, save general ceremony?
[Within]  Who's there that knocks so imperiously?
Till we serve you; but when you have our roses,
you are--I cannot call you Lycurguses--if the drink
To the king's danger. Presently the duke
Come, I'll go see this Italian: what I have lost
The watch-dogs bark!
With his sword drawn; foam'd at the mouth, and swore,
A wretched ragged man, o'ergrown with hair,
Tyrrel, I mean those bastards in the Tower.
Your brother kings and monarchs of the earth
In lieu whereof, I pray you, bear me hence
My lord your son made me to think of this;
Peering in maps for ports and piers and roads;
So shows a snowy dove trooping with crows,
Not for thy fairy kingdom. Fairies, away!
We have, sir.
Last night 'twas on mine arm; I kiss'd it:
For the ass to the Jude; give it him:--Jud-as, away!
I cannot say 'tis pity
cannot be that Desdemona should long continue her
shortened, for she has been too long a talking of,
You'll make a mutiny among my guests!
He is a great observer and he looks
frights English out of his wits.
I'll leave you: pray you, speak to 'em, I pray you,
And by that loss your daughter is made queen.
Do not name Silvia thine; if once again,
that my report: you, indeed, spoke so of him; and
Whom now I keep in service. Thou best know'st
A vessel rides fast by, but not prepared
Faith, master, I am thinking of the poor men that
Balk logic with acquaintance that you have
As merry as you will.
Like a strange soul upon the Stygian banks
Presented to my knife his throat: I took him;
earwax: and the goodly transformation of Jupiter
And bring thee forth brave brood.
If not to answer, you might haply think
I pray you, tell my lord and father, madam,
The abuse of greatness is, when it disjoins
An angry arm against His minister.
The offers we have sent you.
And with satiety seeks to quench his thirst.
would suffer her poor knight surprised, without
These griefs, these woes, these sorrows make me old.
If thou deny, their blood upon thy head;
If not: we'll make you sit and rifle you.
And, that I love the tree from whence thou sprang'st,
Now thou art gone, we have no staff, no stay.
Of usance for my moneys, and you'll not hear me:
Though he be honourable,--
Write down, master gentleman Conrade. Masters, do
I will yet do you service.
Come, cords, come, nurse; I'll to my wedding-bed;
case, William?
I will tell you the beginning; and, if it please
Do not, in grant of all demands at large,
Have ever come too short of my desires,
Poor rogues, I pray you, say.
Is ripe for shaking, and the powers above
Nay, to be perjured, which is worst of all;
Fair fall the bones that took the pains for me!--
Like powder in a skitless soldier's flask,
his virtue, which he hath not, he might at some
I am loath to tell you what I would you knew.
To cavil in the course of this contract:
I told him of the army that was landed;
Did perish with the infant. 'Tis your counsel
Marry, sir, they praise me and make an ass of me;
Exeunt
Through this the well-beloved Brutus stabb'd;
a measure, and a cinque pace: the first suit is hot
What think you of it?
Heave him away upon your winged thoughts
Which cannot choose but bring him quickly on.
Such dear concernings hide? who would do so?
Are men endued with worthy qualities:
I am perplex'd, and know not what to say.
Are all thrown down, and that which here stands up
Or I with grief and extreme age shall perish
It was the nightingale, and not the lark,
I'll pay your bounties; till then rest your debtor.
To have them fall no more: you some permit
A crowd of people; among them ARTEMIDORUS and the  Soothsayer. Flourish. Enter CAESAR, BRUTUS,  CASSIUS, CASCA, DECIUS BRUTUS, METELLUS CIMBER,  TREBONIUS, CINNA, ANTONY, LEPIDUS, POPILIUS, PUBLIUS, and others
Making both it unable for itself,
methought I had,--but man is but a patched fool, if
breeder of sinners? I am myself indifferent honest;
The king is to be feared as the lion: dost thou
it.
Speak, good Cominius:
Against my will to do myself this wrong.
in his own chamber--I mean, the lines of my body are
Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it.
Why, what of that?
Hush! here comes Antony.
Lest thou increase the number of the dead;
spirit Percy, and that devil Glendower? Art thou
We would so, and then go a bat-fowling.
Perchance you think too much of so much pains?
Down, down to hell; and say I sent thee thither:
I would I had some flowers o' the spring that might
If I would but go to hell for an eternal moment or so,
[Within]  Faith, no; he comes too late;
silence, and work the peace of the present, we will
Well, let us go.
This villanous salt-petre should be digg'd
I am provided of a torch-bearer.
This were a bed but cold to sleep so soundly.
He left a promise to return again
We shall to London get, where you are loved
Come, gentle night, come, loving, black-brow'd night,
And, to relief of lazars and weak age,
A worthy friend. The king has made him master
I have but with a cursorary eye
That she's the choice love of Signior Gremio.
Preferment falls on him that cuts him off.
Nor I.
He that hath suffer'd this disorder'd spring
Indeed, I should have ask'd you that before.
I scorn thee and thy fashion, peevish boy.
And thou shalt live as freely as thy lord,
Did Cicero say any thing?
Given ear to our complaint, of his great grace
Shuts up his windows, locks far daylight out
Alack, my lord, that fault is none of yours;
Enter Shepherd and Clown
Might have the freer course.
And he that is approved in this offence,
friends, and full of expectation; an excellent plot,
'Tis known already that I am possess'd
Exeunt
Enter a Pedant
Till then, my noble friend, chew upon this:
And what wilt thou do? beg, when that is spent?
If you might please to stretch it.
She was beloved, she loved; she is, and doth:
But mark: as in this haughty attempt
With spans and inches so diminutive
Worse and worse, mistress; she has here spoken holy
Will I for ever and my faction wear,
her home again. She hath despised me rejoicingly,
And be a boy right out.
I make a broken delivery of the business; but the
Like lime-twigs set to catch my winged soul.
Nay, I am the very pink of courtesy.
Lest, being over-proud in sap and blood,
And buz these conjurations in her brain.
thee, I bid thy master cut out the gown; but I did
Is in his brain: he bites his lip, and starts;
He shall be happy that can find him, if
Like urchins, ouphes and fairies, green and white,
If you were born to honour, show it now;
Faith, sirrah, an you'll not knock, I'll ring it;
Hermione was not so much wrinkled, nothing
O, sir, you had then left unseen a wonderful piece
SCENE III. A chapel in PAULINA'S house.
Marry, heaven forbid!
O Dieu vivant! shall a few sprays of us,
Sacred and sweet was all I saw in her.
March patiently along: let one be sent
Nurse! Wife! What, ho! What, nurse, I say!
Enter ANTIOCHUS, Prince PERICLES, and followers
On pain of punishment, the world to weet
There stay until the twelve celestial signs
As mercy does.
You may discern the place.
silver, set with pearls, down sleeves, side sleeves,
Thou losest thy old smell.
But crave! Then I'll turn craver too, and so I
There's a good grandam.
Why, thy godhead laid apart,
Shall show more goodly and attract more eyes
A good direction, warlike sovereign.
I think it is good morrow, is it not?
I live to look upon their tragedy.
Enter RICHARD
But for thy world enjoying but this land,
Shall no man else be touch'd but only Caesar?
Madam, undress you and come now to bed.
me: the malignancy of my fate might perhaps
To urge the thing held as a ceremony?
With you, goodman boy, an you please: come, I'll
And will acknowledge you and Jessica
Pass no further.
On the poor souls for whom this hungry war
SCENE I. On board PERICLES' ship, off Mytilene. A close
Romeo, bon jour! there's a French salutation
And, brother, here's the Earl of Wiltshire's blood,
fifty each: so that the muster-file, rotten and
so he that in this action contrives against his own
Then, lest my lie be cropp'd to keep you clear,
As broad Achilles; keeps his tent like him;
Hast thou not sworn allegiance unto me?
And though I make this marriage for my peace,
Return'd my letter back. Then all alone
You shall be more beloving than beloved.
Pish for thee, Iceland dog! thou prick-ear'd cur of Iceland!
Being nature's livery, or fortune's star,--
From the dead blow of it. And you, enchantment.--
I will feed fat the ancient grudge I bear him.
So sure I swear to get the town or die.
Concluding 'Stay: not yet.'
Sweet love,--
Not a word, a word; we stand upon our manners.
And winking Mary-buds begin
I have sent twenty out to seek for you.
Sermons in stones and good in every thing.
O, widow Dido! ay, widow Dido.
Or hide your heads like cowards, and fly hence.
It comes not ill; I hate not to be banish'd;
Ingratitude, thou marble-hearted fiend,
For I do see the cruel pangs of death
But he; as loving his own pride and purposes,
But most himself, if he could see his shame.
Will he be satisfied.
bigger than pins' heads, and they have bought out
Now breathe we, lords: good fortune bids us pause,
has neither leg, hands, lip, nor cap; and indeed
I have left asleep; and for the rest o' the fleet
Do thou but call my resolution wise,
them the wrong to mistrust any, I will do myself the
Thou dost not wish more help from England, coz?
You cry against the noble senate, who,
And profound Solomon to tune a jig,
Robes and furr'd gowns hide all. Plate sin with gold,
The leaf to read them. Let us toward the king.
Flourish of cornets. Enter the PRINCE OF ARRAGON, PORTIA, and their trains
But to the girdle do the gods inherit,
the house.
I have two nights watched with you, but can perceive
With whose envenomed and fatal sting,
He could have temporized.
And, which is worse, within thy nasty mouth!
Where is the queen?
Whose womb unmeasurable, and infinite breast,
Of excellent dumb discourse.
I'll do well yet. Thou old and true Menenius,
Were my lord so, his ignorance were wise,
compulsion, I.
Let frantic Talbot triumph for a while
Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven;
Your highness said even now, I made you a duke:
No, 'faith; she let it drop by negligence.
When I have chased all thy foes from hence,
from a first.
Mars dote on you for his novices! what will ye do?
It does: but time will--and so--
To save this brat's life?
Which is his only.
Here dies the dusky torch of Mortimer,
That done, repair to Pompey's theatre.
of mine: how worthy he is I will leave to appear
teaches him to hick and to hack, which they'll do
From the four corners of the earth they come,
A grievous burthen was thy birth to me;
If you would grant the time.
Upon the winds command, bind them in brass,
I slew him not; but to my own disgrace
Exeunt
Although in glorious titles he excel.
Mann'd with three hundred men, as I have heard;
Six frozen winter spent,
'Fore God, I think so.
Nay, gentle Romeo, we must have you dance.
desire to live.
The clock gives me my cue, and my assurance bids me
With all the nearest things to my heart, as well
Smiling at grief. Was not this love indeed?
Off with the crown, and with the crown his head;
I say, this Ajax--
Wherein my death might yield her any profit,
Transformed Timon to our city's love
'Nay,' said I, 'a good wit:' 'Just,' said she, 'it
Were brought me of your loss and his depart.
A woman lost among ye, laugh'd at, scorn'd?
And with the incorporal air do hold discourse?
The picture that is hanging in your chamber;
Music of the hautboys as under the stage
That the false housewife Fortune break her wheel,
Exit
Pray you, put up your dagger, and put out your wit.
To fright the animals and to kill them up
humour-letter: I will keep the havior of reputation.
The shadow of my sorrow! ha! let's see:
The rather, for I earnestly beseech,
Did Jessica steal from the wealthy Jew
what art thou?
And shall perchance do good: but speak you on;
Enter CHARLES, BURGUNDY, ALENCON, BASTARD OF ORLEANS, REIGNIER, JOAN LA PUCELLE, and forces
With him! why, 'tis not possible.
Sir, but you shall come to it, by your honour's
Follow my mother.
the foils be brought, the gentleman willing, and the
That two such noble peers as ye should jar!
From action and adventure?
As he had lost some province and a region
To GONERIL
This man is better than the man he slew,
Here, at your service. My lord approaches.
Married in league, coupled and linked together
My unsoil'd name, the austereness of my life,
To see you so attired, sworn, I think,
know his conditions and lay him in straw. I have but
A closet lock and key of villanous secrets
all shall flout me out of my calling.
All in the morning betime,
The reasons are more potent and heroical:
And let us all to meditation.
What 'tis to cram a maw or clothe a back
O, she doth teach the torches to burn bright!
By heaven, I do not, I do not, gentlemen.
And never did desire to see thee more.
Returns us that his powers are yet not ready
Hear patiently my purpose: I'll disrobe me
If I begin the battery once again,
O, speak of that; that do I long to hear.
Pray, be counsell'd:
It then remains
Than any is in hell.
Than when I first my wedded mistress saw
When your false masters eat of my lord's meat?
Love, whose month is ever May,
Of middle summer, and I think they are given
To the oath of loyalty; this object, which
Enter YORK, SALISBURY, and WARWICK
To give his censure: these are no women's matters.
These two young gentlemen, that call me father
If this but answer to my just belief,
Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
done; at such and such a sconce, at such a breach,
Command me.
That brought you forth this boy, to keep your name
Enter CINNA the poet
DON
I shall not want false witness to condemn me,
out of brothels, thy hand out of plackets, thy pen
In a most dear particular. He call'd me father:
Too long a pause for that which you find there.
And hide the false seems true.
Wanting a hand to give it action?
Some villain, ay, and singular in his art.
when my lust hath dined,--which, as I say, to vex
Very well: what would you?
Can make good use of either: she being down,
Till I be crown'd and that my sword be stain'd
'Mong boys, grooms, and lackeys. But their pleasures
I prithee, pretty youth, let me be better acquainted
By gar, den, I have as mush mock-vater as de
dizzy the arithmetic of memory, and yet but yaw
I lead espoused my bride along with me.
To good or bad.
I would you had her spirit in such another:
The front of heaven was full of fiery shapes,
I will embrace thee in it by and by.
That mourn'd for fashion, ignorant what to fear,
And with the half-blown rose. But Fortune, O,
Faith, not me.
Thou let'st thy fortune sleep--die, rather; wink'st
By your leave.
My lord, here are letters for you.
You must contrary me! marry, 'tis time.
Hic et ubique? then we'll shift our ground.
Lay all the weight ye can upon my patience,
Let us be led within thy bosom, Richard,
in the parliament for the putting down of men. How
I would have had thee there, and here again,
Satan, avoid! I charge thee, tempt me not.
savoury, nor no matter in the phrase that might
Then, by the lawful power that I have,
Enter DERBY and SIR CHRISTOPHER URSWICK
Patiently to bear my wroth.
his meat without grudging: and how you may be
Now thou dost penance too. Look how they gaze!
My soul shall thine keep company to heaven;
If he say so, may his pernicious soul
good Aliena!
Been what he knew himself, it had gone well:
How much thou wrong'st me, heaven be my judge.
Wherefore?
Being thus crammed in the basket, a couple of Ford's
The noble Earl of Suffolk also lies.
From off the rock Tarpeian never more
Go you to hunting; I'll abide with him.
Tarry, sweet Beatrice.
'Ad Martem,' that's for myself:
Which, at more leisure, I will so excuse
I should have known no less.
Here's no sound jest! the old man hath found their guilt;
And chattering pies in dismal discords sung.
With thoughts so qualified as your charities
Our sport shall be to take what they mistake:
France should have torn and rent my very heart,
I will survey the inscriptions back again.
Thy mother rather feel thy pride than fear
She'll none o' the count: she'll not match above
We both have fed as well, and we can both
Make the sun dance. Hark you!
To his music plants and flowers
Madam, my lord will go away to-night;
Ay, if I know the letters and the language.
For now our observation is perform'd;
If you'll sit down,
Loaden with irons wiser than the judge,
Yet you are curb'd from that enlargement by
From forth the ranks of many thousand French,
When he perceived me shrink and on my knee,
Be practised well to this, or they'll ne'er do't.
And I will look on both indifferently,
An't like your grace,--
To Apemantus, that few things loves better
Myself no joy in nought but that thou livest.
I am ashamed: does not the stone rebuke me
prediction; there's son against father: the king
What have you lost by losing of this day?
To the next abstinence: the next more easy;
We left them all at home: but we are soldiers;
Old Lady:	'Tis strange: a three-pence bow'd would hire me,
Are summer songs for me and my aunts,
His name, I pray you.
to a second, that have so mightily persuaded him
Within this mile break forth a hundred springs;
Believe it better than reportingly.
thou, that my master is become a notable lover?
How comes it then that thou art call'd a king,
conduit of many kings' reigns. I never heard of such
Britain, lest the bargain should catch cold and
Shall find him by his large and portly size.
And I unto the sea from whence I came.
you of this man that takes me for the general? He's
and that I hope is an unmeasurable distance.
Of his true state.
And take you by the hand; but then you'll think--
Is like to lay upon us.
Ay, but not mine own desire.
Will rain hot vengeance on offenders' heads.
Yet, countrymen, O, yet hold up your heads!
Of what we chance to sentence.
Let us on heaps go offer up our lives.
That by direct or indirect attempts
The least of these unspeakable deserts,
I will be your Rosalind in a more coming-on
Says that this deed is chronicled in hell.
A million fail, confounding oath on oath.
If for thy ransom thou wilt now compound,
Mine eyes
What vane? what weathercock? did you ever hear better?
Enter two Players, King and Queen
So, this is Tyre, and this the court. Here must I
To see how God in all his creatures works!
Some aqua vitae, ho! My lord! my lady!
How low am I, thou painted maypole? speak;
Nay, whom they shall obey, and love thee too,
Like offices of pity. Sir, be prosperous
Spring crestless yeomen from so deep a root?
Why, such is love's transgression.
Our cousin Hereford and fell Mowbray fight:
I'm weary of this charge, the gods can witness:
Blessed fig's-end! the wine she drinks is made of
Which didst unworthy slaughter upon others.
Lord Timon's mad.
Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd
Vail to her mistress Dian; still
Ah, know you not the city favours them,
You are light into my hands, where you are like to live.
Presenting me a schedule! I will read it.
Of the sea-water green, sir.
Have I, thy schoolmaster, made thee more profit
To quit this horrid act.
If thou be'st rated by thy estimation,
No harm by it, though the gods hear, I hope
Do so, King Philip; hang no more in doubt.
I would relieve her. Had you that craft, to reave
heard a man of his place, gravity and learning, so
Nothing, but our undertakings; when we vow to weep
What is't thou say'st?
More than a spinster; unless the bookish theoric,
There's nothing situate under heaven's eye
'Tis for the followers fortune widens them,
Do rush upon us as their hungry prey.
That's my master, master doctor.
Already have I been false to Valentine
bow-string and the little hangman dare not shoot at
Strengthen your patience in our last night's speech;
To hedge me in; I am a soldier, I,
Ay, and for much more slaughter after this.
But fare ye well: 'tis partly my own fault;
thou silly gentleman!
You take the sum and substance that I have.
My blemishes in them, and so still think of
Which like a mighty whiffler 'fore the king
Love not such nights as these; the wrathful skies
Be what thou wilt, thou art my prisoner.
Lest your retirement do amaze your friends.
And in's spring became a harvest, lived in court--
I could have well diverted her intents,
My lord, 'tis rated
foolish-hanging of thy nether lip, that doth warrant
Good night.
Supplied with worthy men! plant love among 's!
Kneeling
You kill me to deny it. Farewell.
I answer'd indirectly, as I said;
Hath pawn'd the Sicils and Jerusalem,
She dances featly.
Storm and tempest
This seems a fair deserving, and must draw me
Divide themselves between you!
Would long ere this have met us on the way
What I have said, Bianca, get you in:
That I did love the Moor to live with him,
Away, then! I am lock'd in one of them:
You were of our determination!
In charging you with matters, to commit you,
green, when it was so dark thou couldst not see thy
I will not peace. What is the matter, Aumerle.
And firm for Doctor Caius, hath appointed
Enter GRATIANO
As love is full of unbefitting strains,
And danger, which I fear'd, is at Antioch,
Thus both are gone with conscience and remorse;
Lucius the Roman, comes to Milford-Haven
Why, sir, they were nothing but about Mistress Anne
And, as I wooed for thee to obtain her, I will join
How purposed, sir, I pray you?
Do so;
O knight thou lackest a cup of canary: when did I
And since that time it is eleven years;
His form and cause conjoin'd, preaching to stones,
And, Norfolk, throw down his.
Sad true lover never find my grave,
Which would be worn now in their newest gloss,
O, let me think on Hastings, and be gone
They are all perceived without ye.
As were our England in reversion his,
Still going?
This tongue hath parley'd unto foreign kings
To his full height. On, on, you noblest English.
Which contradicts my accusation and
master's command, he must carry for a present to his lady.
Then, if thou grant'st thou'rt a man, I have forgot thee.
SCENE I. Milan. An abbey.
As thoughts of things divine, are intermix'd
There spake my brother; there my father's grave
With three-fold love I wish you all these three.
Enter KING RICHARD III
It is an accustomed action with her, to seem thus
Even so. Poor men alone? No, no; the noblest deer
Well roared, Lion.
No, not all these, thrice-gorgeous ceremony,
show in the posterior of this day, to be rendered by
I did; with his contract with Lady Lucy,
Or to exclaim on fortune's fickleness.
And make this haste as your own good proceeding,
Applies an asp
call you the town's name where Alexander the Pig was born!
To greet your lord with writing, do't to-night:
To live in prayer and contemplation,
What, man! 'tis a night of revels: the gallants
And was a common gamester to the camp.
But in the way of bargain, mark ye me,
Bade him win all.
For brave Macbeth--well he deserves that name--
Hero! why, Hero! Uncle! Signior Benedick! Friar!
Even as the axe falls, if I be not faithful!
And no worldly suit would he be moved,
I slew the coward, and did take it from him.
The which will I; not all so much for love
man's voice.
But is four Volsces? none of you but is
Ay, it is fit for your lordship only.
I love Aliena; say with her that she loves me;
Come on, i' God's name; once more toward our father's.
Again!
Knowing that tender youth is soon suggested,
O my dread lord,
Doubt that the sun doth move;
My patience to his fury, and am arm'd
I will; and so will she, I know, my lord.
Yea, leave that labour to great Hercules;
But, noble as he is, look where he comes.
The mean is drown'd with your unruly bass.
SCENE I. Ely House.
I see the lady hath a thing to grant,
I have a suit which you must not deny me;
I will not speak with him; say I am sick:
To work mine end upon their senses that
On me, that halt and am unshapen thus?
Which often, thus, correcting thy stout heart,
And give it food. There is an old poor man,
The mounting Bolingbroke ascends my throne,
There is much care and valour in this Welshman.
To have me filch it?
On the curl'd clouds, to thy strong bidding task
here much Orlando!
I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet; these words
As I perchance hereafter shall think meet
Weigh'd between loathness and obedience, at
Stands in some rank of praise.
As if besmear'd in hell. Sit by us; you shall hear--
Methinks the wind hath spoke aloud at land;
You are the musty chaff; and you are smelt
The quarrel toucheth none but us alone;
We do exhibit to your majesty.
Scorn and defiance; slight regard, contempt,
To lead you to our court; vouchsafe it then.
Of space had pointed him sharp as my needle,
'Whoop, do me no harm, good man.'
you, throw none away; the skin is good for your
The slave's report is seconded; and more,
Good sometime queen, prepare thee hence for France:
And have thee reverenced like a blessed saint:
Nature should be so conversant with pain,
And make a moral of the devil himself.
Nay, he's a flower; in faith, a very flower.
And his pond fish'd by his next neighbour, by
I have spoke the truth.
Purchase the sight again of dear Sicilia
Not I, sir; you are my elder.
have change, she must: therefore put money in thy
All my reports go with the modest truth;
And that my fortune rubs against the bias.
Of one persuaded well of--
You, sir! why, what are you?
The other, though unfinish'd, yet so famous,
Why, she that bears the bow.
Pays homage to us--thou mayst not coldly set
Read o'er the volume of young Paris' face,
Break the neck of the wax, and every one give ear.
Doth make an earthquake of nobility.
The loathness to depart would grow. Adieu!
it makes him, and it mars him; it sets
For the fair devil. Now art thou my lieutenant.
O, then I see that madmen have no ears.
Seeing how loathly opposite I stood
Yea, thrust this enterprise into my heart;
I am heartily sorry that he'll be glad of this.
receives not thy nose court-odor from me? reflect I
No, but to the gate; and there will the devil meet
Hear me yet, good Shylock.
That one body should be fill'd
Have too much blood in him.
Will you vouchsafe to teach a soldier terms
Now, until the break of day,
Not from his mouth,
What say'st thou? majesty! I am but grace.
them, some upon the debts they owe, some upon their
That matter is answered directly.
The youth says well. Now hear our English king;
First to possess his books; for without them
Now, if you love me, stay.
To work exceeding miracles on earth.
At whose pleasure, friend
To Tenedos they come;
thee; if she will not, I will never have her unless
And strew this hungry churchyard with thy limbs:
even now into my hand by an under-skinker, one that
Striking RODERIGO
All several sins, all used in each degree,
I cannot tell vat is dat: but it is tell-a me dat
Enter the Messenger as before
we make trifles of terrors, ensconcing ourselves
May show like all yourself.
Know what they would.
I pray you, sir, hold your hand.
If I have fewest, I subscribe in silence.
This day I'll wear aloft my burgonet,
But for his own; and for the right of that
All's well; and might have been much better, if
And see you read no other lectures to her:
Most honourably doth unhold his word.
There was it:
She's making her ready, she'll come straight: you
Lest in our need he might infect another
I told him that your father was at Venice,
Ay, that I am not thee.
Conceit, my comfort and my injury.
As happy prologues to the swelling act
To give me now a little benefit,
That Lucentio indeed had Baptista's youngest daughter.
Exit
For an hour.
Falling in, after falling out, may make them three.
To kindle cowards and to steel with valour
We drink this health to you.
All too soon I shall,
cunning match have you made with this jest of the
Where is the provost?
Till you compound whose right is worthiest,
with thee.
And lay it by: the angry northern wind
Must you with hot irons burn out both mine eyes?
Let die the spotted.
My lady sweet, arise:
Enter a Soldier
Whereto my finger, like a dial's point,
His body couched in a curious bed,
The trembling lamb environed with wolves.
A very little little let us do.
Prepare you, lords, for Edward is at hand.
Definitively thus I answer you.
Charles, and the rest, it is enacted thus:
My lord!
Thy hounds shall make the welkin answer them
As I would be forgiven: I forgive all;
So you have: but I was a gentleman born before my
I'll not deny him any thing I have,
Let him go up into the public chair;
comes that the wenches say 'God damn me;' that's as
was senseless; 'twas nothing to geld a codpiece of a
Thus have I yielded up into your hand
Dispose of them, of me; the walls are thine:
SCENE IV. Other plains in Gascony.
Hold, Tybalt! good Mercutio!
Say ay, and be the captain of us all:
sequent to your whipping: you would answer very well
Your brother too must die; consent you, Lepidus?
Play'd for a pair of stainless maidenhoods:
I go.
Into the madness wherein now he raves,
The queen, my lord, the queen.
Of this most dreadful preparation,
Is warlike Lucius general of the Goths?
Not for their own demerits, but for mine,
Now, the gods to-bless your honour!
news in Rome? I have a note from the Volscian state,
This day, great duke, she shut the doors upon me,
of his act.
Thaliard,
the brains of my Cupid's knocked out, and I begin to
Things that are past are done with me. 'Tis thus:
Edward and Clarence. O, what cause have I,
With them Sir Thomas Vaughan, prisoners.
That's more than we know.
He says so.
The moon methinks looks with a watery eye;
How say you now? is not your husband mad?
For, as he writes, there is no quailing now.
with her, and bring her along with you, it may awake
ACT V
I am most glad
Our quick remove from hence.
Wish chastely and love dearly, that your Dian
By rushing in their houses, bearing thence
Oxford, redoubted Pembroke, Sir James Blunt,
Where'er I wander, boast of this I can,
I never did her any, to my knowledge.
Hath ta'en displeasure 'gainst his gentle niece,
my son Coriolanus: guess, but by my entertainment
finding him, and relish it with good observance.
No.
And the true blood which peepeth fairly through't,
Where may we set our horses?
in the market-place.
This man may help me to his majesty's ear,
meantime, good Signior Benedick, repair to
What mutter you, or what conspire you, lords?
Come, gentlemen, let's all go visit him:
Else ne'er could he so long protract his speech.
In single combat thou shalt buckle with me,
To whom with all submission, on my knee
Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,
Farewell, my sovereign.
Away! I say; commend me to thy master.
And kiss me, Kate, we will be married o'Sunday.
O, stand up blest!
RICHARD
Shall from your neck unloose his amorous fold,
Above yon busky hill! the day looks pale
small like a woman.
Enter PUBLIUS, BRUTUS, LIGARIUS, METELLUS, CASCA, TREBONIUS, and CINNA
From whose obedience I forbid my soul,
Dauphin, command the citizens make bonfires
And, but for ceremony, such a wretch,
There is no appearance of fancy in him, unless it be
I'll be so bold to break the seal for once.
himself out of his five sentences.
O' my word, an she knew him as well as I do, she
Incite them to quick motion; for I must
With honour of his birthright to the crown.
In love
ANTIPHOLUS
A slave whose gall coins slanders like a mint,
Until that act of parliament be repeal'd
And all my children?
There's beggary in the love that can be reckon'd.
Now, sir, have I met you again? there's for you.
Which towards you are most gentle, you shall find
With what is spoke already.
Then show it me.
Peace, break thee off; look, where it comes again!
One whose hard heart is button'd up with steel;
Outrun the pauser, reason. Here lay Duncan,
I am a poor man, and at your majesty's command.
Her blood is settled, and her joints are stiff;
Virtue is choked with foul ambition
I cannot be so partial, Goneril,
Exeunt
come into any room in a tap-house, but I am drawn
Why, then thou art an executioner.
If it be so, Laertes--
Even now the frozen bosom of the north,
The king of heaven forbid our lord the king
What is between you? give me up the truth.
As from a blushing handmaid, to his highness;
[Aside]  I am almost afraid to stand alone
Upon mine honour, he is prisoner.
With this ungracious paper strike the sight
O perdurable shame! let's stab ourselves.
The people are incensed against him.
If not a present remedy, at least a patient
Ten the clock there. Give me a calendar.
Let hell want pains enough to torture me.
ANDREW AGUECHEEK.
O, what a fall was there, my countrymen!
Say, Signior Gremio, What can you assure her?
Badly, I fear. How fares your majesty?
Or springhalt reign'd among 'em.
The prince of darkness is a gentleman:
And cordial to me, have I not found it
Prithee, to bed; and in thy prayers remember
Turn back, dull earth, and find thy centre out.
Continues well my lord? His health, beseech you?
And me too, good Lord!
We do, my lord.
One only daughter have I, no kin else,
Unto a dismal and a fatal end:
Even so remorseless have they borne him hence;
Do not desire to see this letter.
The younger then is free and not before.
We met here both to thank and to remember
I scorn thy meat; 'twould choke me, for I should
Nurse, will you go with me into my closet,
We thank you all.
ANTIPHOLUS
Will ne'er wear out the everlasting flint:
Dare mate a sounder man than Surrey can be,
Rosalind, I am that he, that unfortunate he.
What beast was't, then,
And burn sweet wood to make the lodging sweet:
With downright payment, show'd unto my father.
Fie, fie upon thee, strumpet!
Of my young play-fellow.
When remedies are past, the griefs are ended
Solomon so seduced, and he had a very good wit.
Which was a sin, yet in bestowing, madam,
My children too?
Exit
Of what, lady? of speaking honourably? Is not
To wife for Edward: if this news be true,
other, if she will not discover it.
Pompey the Huge!
I'll bear your logs the while: pray, give me that;
The which immediacy may well stand up,
And now, dear maid, be you as free to us.
For beauty that made barren the swell'd boast
I cried to dream again.
And on the sudden dropp'd.
Proud northern lord, Clifford of Cumberland,
Thou canst not, son; it is impossible.
That I am not.
But she would spell him backward: if fair-faced,
designs, and of great import indeed, too, but let
I pray you, have your remembrance, child,
point. Four rogues in buckram let drive at me--
Re-enter WARWICK and others, bearing GLOUCESTER'S body on a bed
The lord be praised!
Hark, one word in your ear.
A chough of as deep chat. O, that you bore
Old Signior Gremio has in Padua;
Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly;
lay my countenance to pawn; I have grated upon my
Enter Sailors
Ay, fashion you may call it; go to, go to.
Courage enough: I do not fear the flaw;
Yes, that I did; but that was but courtesy.
Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected,
Bear with me cousin, for I was amazed
But smacks of something greater than herself,
Be like a beacon fired to amaze your eyes.
Thersites! what's the matter, man?
Hath ordain'd to an honourable end,
Blow off thy cap; praise his most vicious strain,
The other way's a Mars. Bid you Alexas
pity to cast them away for nothing; though, between
To what I ask you.
The greatest monarch now alive may glory
His insolence is more intolerable
Shall not be long but I'll be here again:
Not?
What's to do here, Thomas tapster? let's withdraw.
Besides, I will be sworn these ears of mine
Fashion it thus; that what he is, augmented,
common houses, I know no law: bring them away.
And but one meal on every day beside,
Made me to blame in memory.
They converse apart
Be patient, for the world is broad and wide.
Will vouch the truth of it. Him I accuse
To kill, I grant, is sin's extremest gust;
He brings you figs.
I have seen him do. How he solicits heaven,
Be patient; to-morrow 't shall be mended,
To have bless'd mine eyes with her!
And, must needs say, a noble one; which makes me,
In this so sudden business.
that was, your son that is, your child that shall
She was not, sure.
I should have lost the worth of it in gold.
No, my lord, rather with choler.
O villany! Ho! let the door be lock'd:
Must I remember? why, she would hang on him,
And show me to the shouting varletry
And, daughter, yours.
Exit
About it; for it stands me much upon,
But fare thee well; thou art a gallant youth:
With meditations lawful?
you? where a man may serve seven years for the loss
you can separate yourself and your misdemeanors, you
What hope is there of his majesty's amendment?
suitors have strong breaths: they shall know we
It is much that the Moor should be more than reason:
And throw their power i' the dust.
Come away.
Whose life was England's glory, Gallia's wonder.
In that same place thou hast appointed me,
Pole!
Enter one in sumptuous armour
What horrible fancy's this?
Thou shalt have justice, more than thou desirest.
As I am mad, I do:
It is a fault that springeth from your eye.
All kinds of sores and shames on my bare head.
Thither shall it then:
Did need an oath; when every drop of blood
From the first corse till he that died to-day,
The fifth was Edmund Langley, Duke of York;
But not the words.
This a consul? no.
Who leads towards Rome a band of warlike Goths,
but thee; and thou deservest it.
Belike, for joy the emperor hath a son.
That all the tears that thy poor eyes let fall
Fellow, come from the throng; look upon Caesar.
Must give this cur the lie: and his own notion--
How dost thou feel thyself now?
Let not my worser spirit tempt me again
'Tis one Iago, ancient to the general.
Make rich the ribs, but bankrupt quite the wits.
being a beast, she would have me; but that she,
My people did expect my hence departure
Enter BEATRICE
Make me not offended
man's apparel? Looks he as freshly as he did the
A light, a light!
players--as it is most like, if their means are no
Remember. Madam, fare you well:
I shall digest it.
Why that way?
I your commission will forthwith dispatch,
Welcome, signior: you are almost come to part
Love they to live that love and honour have.
O, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown!
As I am an honest man, I thought you had received
O, when, I say, I look'd on Richard's face,
He must not live to trumpet forth my infamy,
Re-enter CARDINAL WOLSEY, with GARDINER
Where is Posthumus? What is in thy mind,
Sennet. Flourish. Exeunt all but EXETER
Where he should find you lions, finds you hares;
We'll hunt no more to-day, nor seek for danger
Garnish'd like him, that for a tricksy word
And mine; but it grows something stale with me.
solemness out o' door. and go along with us.
king, thou art poor enough. What wouldst thou?
stand up here, and see them as they pass toward
I am either maid, or else this old man's wife.
We three are but thyself; and, speaking so,
And you shall pay well for 'em.
And so farewell, Signior Lucentio.
Retires
Ho! who is within there?
And take your ring again; 'tis not yet won:
abbreviated ne. This is abhominable,--which he
PINDARUS stabs him
How I am galled,--mightst bespice a cup,
Thou told'st me they were stolen unto this wood;
As if it fed ye! and how sleek and wanton
Strangers and foes do sunder, and not kiss.
imposition, as for the enjoying of thy life, who I
cannot part them.
Let's want no discipline, make no delay,
Moved! in good time: let him that moved you hither
And the remembrancer of her to hold
the storm. And art thou living, Stephano? O
So, ere you find where light in darkness lies,
And, as I am an honest Puck,
And hardly shall I carry out my side,
Breathless and faint, leaning upon my sword,
'Tis now dead midnight, and by eight to-morrow
Think you in your soul the Count Claudio hath wronged Hero?
That I have wept a hundred several times.
I will not keep my word.
It's supper-time, my lord;
Hast strangely stood the test here, afore Heaven,
Their shallow shows and prologue vilely penn'd
And very courtly counsel: I'll begin.
And for your love to her lead apes in hell.
By what yourself too late have spoke and done.
Leave them as naked as the vulgar air.
Lives in his eye; that close aspect of his
You were to blame, I must be plain with you,
Why, go to then;
Here in my scabbard, meditating that
any man of quality,--I hope to be saved.
Such tricks hath strong imagination,
And toil'd with works of war, retired himself
I will pray, Pompey, to increase your bondage: If
Are therefore to be pitied.
Re-enter LUCIANA with a purse
Come, come, I know 'tis good for you.
Lord Clifford vows to fight in thy defence:
As willingly as e'er I came from school.
himself possessed him, yet I'll speak to him.
Such parting were too petty. Look here, love;
and lost all my money?
Nor on the beasts themselves, the birds, and fishes;
thee for pity.
Of double ducats, stolen from me by my daughter!
SCENE I. Milan. The DUKE's palace.
I owe him little duty, and less love;
inconstant, full of tears, full of smiles, for every
And when I ope my lips let no dog bark!'
Is 'mongst the dead, and all the lands thou hast
They set upon BANQUO
What says my lord?
Exit POINS
Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
From his deep chest laughs out a loud applause;
At this hour reigning there.
He's now in Florence.
It is your fault that I have loved Posthumus:
SCENE I. Before Orleans.
But that thou art so fast mine enemy.
And die in terror of thy guiltiness!
this sister of mine do with rice? But my father
death affright?
For she is wise, if I can judge of her,
their father, making such pitiful dole over them
It was the friar of orders grey,
Is Fulvia's death.
her face and so disfigure her with it that she
But not without that harmful stroke, which since
As 'twere triumphing at mine enemies,
'Slight, will you make an ass o' me?
Lofty and sour to them that loved him not;
Nay, if you melt, then will she run mad.
Will she not forth?
But stay, the knights are coming: we will withdraw
And on set purpose let his armour rust
That may offend the isle.--But here they come:
The supreme seat, the throne majestical,
With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
The father rashly slaughter'd his own son,
Bore many gentlemen, myself being one,
By and by is easily said.
For though he seem with forged quaint conceit
Exit
The property by what it is should go,
That, if King Lewis vouchsafe to furnish us
That do conspire my death with devilish plots
And from a mouth of honour quite cry down
All offences, my lord, come from the heart: never
By the worst means, the worst. For mine own good,
What hath proceeded worthy note to-day.
So it should be, that none but Antony
Enter OLIVIA and MARIA
Where?
O, no! thou diest, though I the sicker be.
Or turn'd an eye of doubt upon my face,
But yet I would your father had been here.
That no supporter but the huge firm earth
And smilest upon the stroke that murders me.
To orderly soliciting, and be friended
Most dangerously you have with him prevail'd,
Too proud to be so valiant.
Out of the great respect they bear to beauty,
Enter a Goth
shall be the end of my business.
Stay, my lord,
Now is it Rome indeed and room enough,
I did not: he was but a fool that brought
Than a perpetual honour. Darest thou die?
cowards! Let them speak: if they speak more or
Doing the execution and the act
By thee; and this thou didst return from him,
Why should this a desert be?
And shake the yoke of inauspicious stars
Lovers, to bed; 'tis almost fairy time.
That owe yourselves, your lives and services
Are arms to princes, and bring joys to subjects.
This diamond was my mother's: take it, heart;
To Verona.
But, hark thee; I will go to her alone:
have no more gentlemen driven away. Come your ways, I say.
Come with thy two-hand sword.
And then, to sleep but three hours in the night,
And I to live and die her slave.
that is honest; to converse with him that is wise,
A sort of naughty persons, lewdly bent,
By this hand, they are scoundrels and subtractors
A most courteous exposition.
Hortensio, have you told him all her faults?
Indeed we heard how near his death he was
Exit
Begone, I say,
Men into such strange mysteries?
Lucilius' Servant	Mark, how strange it shows,
Exit Clown
As thou unworthy to be call'd her servant.
and reins well.
And hang their heads with sorrow: good grows with her:
we must have your doublet and hose plucked over your
And none contented: sometimes am I king;
Open your gates and gives the victors way.
Now, sir, 'thought is free:' I pray you, bring
Well, let her be admitted.
Since men take women's gifts for impudence.
Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
To clothe mine age with angel-like perfection,
That, if I then had waked after long sleep,
As she from one ungot.
Is queen of us, of ours, and our fair France:
Very necessity of this thought, that I,
How should he be made, then?
Come hither, Francis.
the church.
There's neither faith, truth, nor womanhood in me else.
And faintly through a rusty beaver peeps:
And of the paste a coffin I will rear
Good God! why should they mock poor fellows thus?
[Aside to DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS]  He has a cloud in 's face.
And where thou art not, desolation.
And speak off half a dozen dangerous words,
I will omit no opportunity
And go indeed, having so good a mean.
But twice or thrice was 'Proteus' written down.
Like an unseasonable stormy day,
And travelling along this coast, I here am come by chance,
There is one tree, the phoenix' throne, one phoenix
may find the young Romeo?
And Caesar's spirit, ranging for revenge,
The outward habit by the inward man.
And thrown into the sea. But I'll see further:
I am never merry when I hear sweet music.
Accursed the offspring of so foul a fiend!
you:--why do you go about to recover the wind of me,
measured swords and parted.
How now!
Still, I swear I love you.
Out, tawny coats! out, scarlet hypocrite!
O melancholy!
Drink the free air.
O gentle Proteus, Love's a mighty lord,
The corn o' the storehouse gratis, as 'twas used
I tell you, friends, most charitable care
swore he would pay him again when he was able: I
In glory of my kinsman Hercules.
Marvellous sweet music!
My chastity's the jewel of our house,
Is Paris lost? is Rouen yielded up?
but for bragging and telling her fantastical lies:
I will not harbour in this town to-night:
Unto the crown of France. That you may know
The pregnant instrument of wrath
[Aside]  But better, indeed, when you hold your peace.
Why, you speak truth. I never yet saw man,
Shunn'd my abhorr'd society; but then, finding
Even at noon-day upon the market-place,
Cressid is mine, tied with the bonds of heaven:
If now 'twere fit to do't. At the first sight
Wake Duncan with thy knocking! I would thou couldst!
galling at this gentleman twice or thrice. You
My father is not dead, for all your saying.
Go with the princes, or stay here with us?
And wilt thou learn of me?
That she reserves it evermore about her
What is't, my lord? we will.
And wit's own grace to grace a learned fool.
My lord, I have.
Re-enter the Hostess
Cousin, I think thou art enamoured
But direct villany. Therefore, be abhorr'd
Nay, bear three daughters: by your leave I speak it,
out of his swaddling-clouts.
And his sandal shoon.
I will confess what I know without constraint: if
Graze where you will you shall not house with me:
And maintain such a quarrel openly?
If I keep them, I needs must lose myself;
Nay, I shall ne'er be ware of mine own wit till I
Hath seized the wasteful king. O, what pity is it
Enter to the Protector at the Tower Gates BISHOP OF WINCHESTER and his men in tawny coats
Will rouse the proudest panther in the chase,
If put upon you, make the judgment good
Not mad, but bound more than a mad-man is;
Enter VARRO and CLAUDIUS
Our king and company; the next, our ship--
What would my lord, but that he may not have,
him the fair Desdemona, unless his abode be
Exit, above
Take from my heart all thankfulness! The gods
Exeunt
What says my sweet queen, my very very sweet queen?
The king shall have my service: but my prayers
You were best go in.
Then, gentle brother, get you in again;
That done, laugh well at me.
Because so well I love Lucentio.
Given to the fire, a moiety of my rest
I' the shoulder and i' the left arm there will be
Come to the matter.
we'll unkennel the fox. Let me stop this way first.
Fly, therefore, noble Cassius, fly far off.
If any in Vienna be of worth
He unlocks the golden casket
Witness my son, now in the shade of death;
So I were out of prison and kept sheep,
Than with that hand that cut thy youth in twain
Making defeat on the full power of France,
I did but tell her she mistook her frets,
Is't so, my lords of England?
Where folly now possesses? Do thou work:
This is the gentleman I told your ladyship
Has this fellow no feeling of his business, that he
Now, good Lafeu,
Pray God, sir, your wife send you not a worse.
He that meets Hector issues from our choice
Conspired with that irregulous devil, Cloten,
ne veux point que vous abaissiez votre grandeur en
I pray now, call her.
That solder'st close impossibilities,
What, Ariel! my industrious servant, Ariel!
That you aptly will suppose
O, let me kiss that hand!
you got the picture of old Adam new-apparelled?
A subtle traitor needs no sophister.
The moment is thy death. Away! by Jupiter,
And the rank poison of the old will die.
And who should say, 'I would thou wert the man'
And why should Caesar be a tyrant then?
The Earl of Armagnac, near knit to Charles,
Tremble and start at wagging of a straw,
Is it so concluded?
[Aside]  Must thou needs stand for a villain in
Heat me these irons hot; and look thou stand
Prosperity's the very bond of love,
When simpleness and duty tender it.
It is both he and she;
Who keeps the tent now?
Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER
Uncleanly scruples! fear not you: look to't.
Exit Servant
Your crown content and you must be contented
Her father is no better than an earl,
[Kneeling]  O you mighty gods!
to himself, by the instruction of his frailty, many
They fight
Down thy ill-uttering throat.
Of sprites and goblins.
Make choice; and, see,
What paper were you reading?
By law and process of great nature thence
And go in peace, Humphrey, no less beloved
If Signior Leonato be her father, she would not
Madam, his majesty doth call for you,
The king my father wreck'd.
That should consume it, I have not the face
Sure, I think so;
You may jest on, but, by the holy rood,
Gentleman, God save thee.
It is to you, good people, that I speak,
In great measure.
Frowns at this levity. Gentle lords, let's part;
As that vast shore wash'd with the farthest sea,
That wildly grows in them, but yields a crop
Away, you Ethiope!
Wherefore are these things hid? wherefore have
Let him not know't, and he's not robb'd at all.
Upon so soft a subject as myself!
full of briers is this working-day world!
The bark is ready, and the wind at help,
And of an earthy cold? Mark her eyes!
What cannot be, slight work.
Were rich and honourable; besides, the gentleman
Now, by the gods that warlike Goths adore,
The imperious seas breed monsters, for the dish
Why, that's the way
may speak of thee as the traveller doth of Venice;
Or tear the lions out of England's coat;
I'd such a courage to do him good. But now return,
There's no time for a man to recover his hair that
Run away, I pray you!
Alas poor Romeo! he is already dead; stabbed with a
The issue of the next son should have reign'd.
Then be not poor, but break it, and take this.
Of blessed sanctuary! not for all this land
Should from yond cloud speak divine things,
Upon a lazy bed the livelong day
Signior Baptista, will you be so strange?
My lord,
Fair sir, and you my merry mistress,
Now, by the sky that hangs above our heads,
Give me the map there. Know that we have divided
and uttered such a deal of stinking breath because
Coal-black is better than another hue,
Say, what art thou that talk'st of kings and queens?
Or if thou think'st I am too quickly won,
Faith, gentlemen, now I play a merchant's part,
I will make proof of thine.
Well, we leave that to the proof.
Continue still in this so good a mind,
Be not dismay'd, for succor is at hand:
I do not care whether you do or no. She's a fool to
And Anne my wife hath bid the world good night.
A shield as hard as his. A certain number,
Do't and thou hast the one half of my heart;
Great lords, from Ireland am I come amain,
a bodkin's point.
Now, governor of Paris, take your oath,
Pierce into that; but I can see his pride
We John Cade, so termed of our supposed father,--
You do climb up it now: look, how we labour.
My lord, his throat is cut; that I did for him.
Is this your Christian counsel? out upon ye!
Hop as light as bird from brier;
Bear the great sway of his affairs with reasons,
prove it so.
verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of
Now to the Goths, as swift as swallow flies;
By the eternal God, whose name and power
From whom we do exist, and cease to be;
The image of a wicked heinous fault
And from my false hand cut the wedding-ring
Marry, sir, that's Claudio, Signior Claudio.
Why should we in the compass of a pale
Enter OSWALD
So cowardly; and but for these vile guns,
Exit
As are our wretches fetter'd in our prisons:
Why I your purse?
And as the soldiers bore dead bodies by,
What we have two nights seen.
I will live in thy heart, die in thy lap, and be
True.
Upright he held it, lords, that held it last.
By all the vows that ever men have broke,
In unknown fathoms, will I break my oath
And with a sudden reinforcement struck
Ay, when? can'st tell? Lend me thy lantern, quoth
And still conclusion, shall acquire no honour
You would not then have parted with the ring.
Are burnt and purged away. But that I am forbid
The pardon that I late pronounced here.
Come, Hastings, help me to my closet.
Very sooth, to-morrow.
You beastly knave, know you no reverence?
First tried our soldiership! He did look far
Marry, thou dost wrong me; thou dissembler, thou:--
There stuck no plume in any English crest
Insisture, course, proportion, season, form,
When women cannot love where they're beloved!
For, by oppressing and betraying me,
There is a brief how many sports are ripe:
When sorrows come, they come not single spies
Dian's bud o'er Cupid's flower
Lord, Lord, she will be a joyful woman.
much further;
See not your bride in these unreverent robes:
The trumpet sounds retreat; the day is ours.
Expect him here: when he shall come and find
Our mettle is bred out and they will give
And so let's leave her to her silent walks.
My Lord Bassanio, let him have the ring:
But rather, moody-mad and desperate stags,
For me,
What news, my friend?
O Lord, sir! There's a simple putting off. More,
changes when they are wives. I will be more jealous
Beyond self-explication: put thyself
I say it is the moon.
Who, I? alas, it is my vice, my fault:
Well, we shall sift him.
Thou hast been rightly honest;--so hast thou;--
The sooner to effect what I intended:
Get thee to bed, and rest; for thou hast need.
See me no more, whether he be dead or no.
Your favours, the ambassadors of love;
And orphans for their parents timeless death--
heats me with beating; when I am warm, he cools me
Attend the lords of France and Burgundy, Gloucester.
Urge neither charity nor shame to me:
My dreams will, sure, prove ominous to the day.
Is rank'd with all deserts, all kind of natures,
hath been seduced by them; and the misery is,
Of your fair flesh, to be cut off and taken
If the springe hold, the cock's mine.
Have here bereft my brother of his life.
Or, by the affection that now guides me most,
In the election of a sir so rare,
Wrecked the same instant of their master's death and
If you will swear you have not done't, you lie;
Come, come away, man; I was sent to call thee.
Then Lord have mercy on me!
A fortnight hold we this solemnity,
Under device and practise.
Your bondage happy, to be made a queen?
And that she has discharged: what thou wouldst do
My ill suspicion. This is your son-in-law,
SCENE IV. A plain in Denmark.
Here, most gracious liege.
propositions of a lover; but take a taste of my
He is very near by this: he was not three leagues off
Let me alone.
what we may be. God be at your table!
impossible,--
Give him leave, madam; he is a kind of chameleon.
Take him and cut him out in little stars,
As Beatrice is, cannot be commendable:
A larger dare to our great enterprise,
One seven-night longer.
Presents more woeful pageants than the scene
Fierce to their skill and to their fierceness valiant;
Good morrow, coz.
her recompense: and here, by this, is your brother
Myself have calm'd their spleenful mutiny,
By virtue, thou enforcest laughter; thy silly
Wherefore weep you?
For her perfections: but my revenge will come.
Experience, manhood, honour, ne'er before
Done to death by slanderous tongues
cries out 'No more;' reconciles them to his
My noble lord and father, live in fame!
Show scarce so gross as beetles: half way down
O my dear niece, welcome thou art to me!
And if their wisdoms be misled in this,
On Saturday we will return to France.
my friends and the better for my foes.
it is not so:--it begins with Pyrrhus:--
To lack discretion. Come, go we to the king:
This deadly quarrel daily doth beget!
Do you perceive the gastness of her eye?
And he, that suffer's. O, it is excellent
They are but Lewis and Warwick: I am Edward,
torches, walking with thee in the night betwixt
And Somerset another goodly mast?
High-reaching Buckingham grows circumspect.
Perceived Northumberland did lean to him,
Like to a bowl upon a subtle ground,
Or show the glory of our art?
And we alive that lived? Fly, damned baseness,
Why, let the war receive 't in valiant gore
My lord, in truth, thus far I witness with him,
Sir, he dined with her there, at the Porpentine.
For things that are not to be remedied.
Come, come.
As by your safety, wisdom, all things else,
DON
Were slily crept into his human powers
Yes, that you did, sir, and forswore it too.
When he had done, some followers of mine own,
Bids thee leave these, and with her sovereign grace,
He doth object I am too great of birth--,
To have him match'd; and if you please to like
Marry, sir, sometimes he is a kind of puritan.
By prosperous voyages I often made
This princess of pure white, this seal of bliss!
What, Eros, Eros!
Well it shall be so. But there is two hard things;
Alas, what ignorant sin have I committed?
That from this castle's tatter'd battlements
He did, from first to last: why dost thou ask?
From me he got it. if thy greatness will
A thousand flatterers sit within thy crown,
We therefore have great cause of thankfulness;
Here, at your lordship's service.
What did thy song bode, lady?
Puppet? why so? ay, that way goes the game.
cuckold Ford.
love-songs in their barks.
The cardinal!
Assay the power you have.
Shore his old thread in twain: did he live now,
Whate'er the ocean pales, or sky inclips,
He hath but as offended in a dream!
Their armours, that march'd hence so silver-bright,
him.
With clamourous demands of date-broke bonds,
She sent for you by Dromio home to dinner.
That the great child of honour, Cardinal Wolsey, Was dead?
Have all forsook me, hath devour'd the rest;
Being the agents, or base second means,
difference of all complexions. What! do you stop your ears?
Till it hath travell'd and is mirror'd there
Aumerle, thou liest; his honour is as true
And whilst a field should be dispatch'd and fought,
Has crept too near another lady.
Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare,
Of Hereford, Stafford, and Northampton, I
Sirrah, come hither: 'tis no time to jest,
The clogging burthen of a guilty soul.
There's a testril of me too: if one knight give a--
Deliver up my Lord of Westmoreland.
Which the air beats for vain. O place, O form,
Mine ear is much enamour'd of thy note;
Thomas of Norfolk, what say'st thou to this?
Hood my unmann'd blood, bating in my cheeks,
bonnet: then, if ever thou darest acknowledge it, I
But stay, O spite!
Durst I have done my will. O Cassius,
will not have me, choose:' he hears merry tales and
old man: but I came from her, Master Brook, like a
Acquainted with this stranger 'tis as like you
You are their heir; you sit upon their throne;
A passion hateful to my purposes,
To be opposed against the warring winds?
taken against me a most just exception; but yet, I
to the wall.
No matter, sir, what I have heard or known.
and all brokers-between Pandars! say, amen.
The which he loved passing well.'
grave-maker?
That talk'd of her, have talk'd amiss of her:
these; and make them men of note--do you note
Enter PETRUCHIO and his man GRUMIO
To chase these pagans in those holy fields
I writ to's holiness. Nay then, farewell!
Flourish and march. Enter KING EDWARD IV, GLOUCESTER, CLARENCE, and soldiers
Better it were they all came by the father,
But I bethink me what a weary way
And make her chronicle as rich with praise
Well, I will muse no further. Master Fenton,
Do it without invention, suddenly;
A tower'd citadel, a pendent rock,
Ay, a thousand times.
And not with such a cruel threatening look.
We live not to be grip'd by meaner persons.
water to quench it. I was hardly moved to come to
Country call'd his! and you his mistress, only
Let us to the great supper: their cheer is the
Improvident soldiers! had your watch been good,
Than that which maiden modesty doth warrant,
It poison'd me.
Upon mine honour,--
many I have beheld. I could not but believe she
Ay, traitor.
Beside, his wealth doth warrant a liberal dower,
Come, follow me, boy; come, sir boy, come, follow me:
To be unbent when thou hast ta'en thy stand,
Enter CORNWALL and EDMUND
Out of her favour, where I am in love.
One of our convent, and his confessor,
Not wounding, pity would not let me do't;
Staying him
If traffic do it, the gods do it.
Hear you, sir;
A Judas!
they die unprovided, no more is the king guilty of
change garments with this gentleman: though the
Two of the sweet'st companions in the world.
And, as the world were now but to begin,
Exit a Lord
No! why art thou then exasperate, thou idle
No more of that.
The law that threaten'd death becomes thy friend
Exit
thief this seven year; a' goes up and down like a
On Thurio, whom your gentle daughter hates;
That Henry's death, my lovely Edward's death,
O Charmian,
Are levying powers: we must straight make head:
pence apiece of Yead Miller, by these gloves.
O, where hath our intelligence been drunk?
How is't with me, when every noise appals me?
But did you never swear, and break an oath?
One grave shall be for both: upon them shall
No word to save thee.
Good Mistress Page, for that I love your daughter
My father, and a king.
If my heart's dear love--
And we shall jointly labour with your soul
Signior Leonato, truth it is, good signior,
Our duty to your honour.
I am sorry you must hear: upon mine honour,
they shook hands and swore brothers. Your If is the
Why are you breathless? and why stare you so?
This do and do it kindly, gentle sirs:
And what is written shall be executed.
I'll do my best
To furnish him with all appertinents
you have sworn to me. What, are you gone again?
that, neither having the accent of Christians nor
For my part, I may speak it to my shame,
Is not this boy revived from death?
Or, if his mind be writ, give me his letter.
Construe my speeches better, if you may.
And from that torment I will free myself,
How now! who calls?
How pitiful I deserve,--
A lightning before death: O, how may I
Nor heel the high lavolt, nor sweeten talk,
Cries 'This is he,' could promise to himself
How far 'tis thither. If one of mean affairs
Mark it, Cesario, it is old and plain;
Brother, we will proclaim you out of hand:
Ay, truly; for the power of beauty will sooner
disposition; and out of his noble carelessness lets
Name it.
Sleeps
you up. Boult's returned.
debts are cleared between you and I, if I might but
Avoid the gallery.
Get you home
Faith, like enough.
I do not understand.
No care to your best courses. Go, I pray you,
ones I dare not give. Wherefore, what's the
So rarely kind, are as interpreters
Exeunt
Exit Gentleman
In that which seems so.
I derived liberty.
Clock strikes
Unseemly woman in a seeming man!
Now in his ashes honour: peace be with him!
The king will suffer but the little finger
His oath enrolled in the parliament;
My grave is like to be my wedding bed.
I am desperate of my fortunes if they cheque me here.
Being awake, enforce them to this place,
She was the fairest creature in the world;
I shall serve you, sir,
But that defences, musters, preparations,
Which, once discern'd, shows that her meaning is,
I thank your worship: I shall make my master glad
Be patient; for I will not let him stir
For I will touch thee but with reverent hands;
Are not these large enough?
Who starves the ears she feeds, and makes them hungry,
Trust to't, bethink you; I'll not be forsworn.
Sit, gods, upon your thrones, and smile at Troy!
To say so to my husband.
As prisoners to her womanly persuasion.
Unfit for mine own purposes.
would be glad to receive some instruction from my
time: it opens the eyes of expectation:
Exit
Good gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you;
But I go away with two.
And therewithal took measure of my body.
SCENE VI. The same.
For hardy and undoubted champions;
They have made him drink alms-drink.
I'll slay more gazers than the basilisk;
Why, gentle sweet, you shall see no such thing.
A pair so famous. High events as these
And then I need not crave his courtesy.
Fed from my trencher, kneel'd down at the board.
What, ho, Pisanio!
What would your grace have done unto him now?
'Item: She hath no teeth.'
To let this canker of our nature come
But she is now the wife of Marcus Antonius.
Go, ye giddy goose.
And thou, Posthumus, thou that didst set up
Which is it, girl, of these? Open them, boy.
Against the grace and person of my master,
I am content to look on: what to speak,
Marry, before your ladyship, I grant,
You will do aught, this shall you do for me:
You speak too bitterly.
O Lewis, stand fast! the devil tempts thee here
evidence; therefore stand aside.
And stops he now for breath?
As if I had received them for the hire
I will chide no breather in the world but myself,
You seem to me as Dian in her orb,
Over your friend that loves you.
Why is my lord enraged against his love?
Upon the next occasion that we meet,
But tell me yet, dost thou not know my voice?
We may effect this business yet ere day.
Your master wed me to: nothing but death
To cleave a heart in twain.
long spoon.
Nor grieve that Rouen is so recovered:
As much or more would we ourselves complain:
fat chuffs: I would your store were here! On,
If thou have power to raise him, bring him hither,
bondman? If any, speak; for him have I offended.
Fie on him, Jezebel!
Exeunt KING LEAR and CORDELIA, guarded
Of bringing back the prisoner.
Command my eldest son, nay, all my sons,
Exeunt
throw it to.
I thank thee, Jew, for teaching me that word.
Hoodman comes! Portotartarosa
And soul with soul from France to heaven fly.
justice, sir, and do bring in here before your good
Hipparchus, my enfranched bondman, whom
Youth, thou bear'st thy father's face;
That King Leontes shall not have an heir
Enter ROSS and ANGUS
I found that kindness in a father:
To make William Lord Hastings of our mind,
How parted with your brothers? how first met them?
As doth the sea she lies in, yet the end
nay-word how to know one another: I come to her in
The great'st grace lending grace
Gave him their heirs, as pages follow'd him
Marry, sir, halfpenny farthing.
I fear some outrage, and I'll follow her.
would it were otherwise; that I could beat him,
Here was he merry, hearing of a song.
He may command me as my sovereign;
[Reads]
I have not deserved it.
Turning mortal for thy love.
your enemy; she is not worth our debate: if she
'Las, what's the matter? what's the matter, husband?
Thou counterfeit'st most lively.
What dost thou say, Iago?
I must not yet forsake you: let's be merry:
How know'st thou this?
A poor unmanly melancholy sprung
a man? Shallow, shallow. A better instance, I say; come.
Why, very well, then,--
Sir, this I hear; the king is come to his daughter,
The enemy's in view; draw up your powers.
Not worth my thinking. How now, poet!
Made senseless things begin to do them wrong;
I'll make my heaven to dream upon the crown,
As she had made the overture, she ceased
To lift shrewd steel against our golden crown,
vile that will not love his country? If any, speak;
Purge all infection from our air whilst you
Thus strangers may be hailed and abused: O
draws the horse? Whoop, Jug! I love thee.
gallows is built stronger than the church: argal,
That grief and patience, rooted in him both,
Stay not, all's in vain.
Bitter to me as death: your life, good master,
It shall be full of poise and difficult weight
Of our most sovereign king.
Proceeded further; cut me off the heads
Are not thine own so proper as to waste
Our trumpet call'd you to this gentle parle--
Whither away so fast?
As far as I see, all the good our English
Of beauteous Margaret hath astonish'd me:
And I do know, by this, they stay for me
maintain it to be fit, that, sons at perfect age,
But cheerly seek how to redress their harms.
would think his mother's milk were scarce out of him.
Where we may take him and disgrace him for it.
Fetch me my rapier, boy. What dares the slave
If he be not amazed, he will be mocked; if he be
No more, good York; sweet Somerset, be still:
What, what, ye sanguine, shallow-hearted boys!
And mar men's spurring. Crack the lawyer's voice,
As he could make me with this eye or ear
Straight will I bring you to the loathsome pit
admit no discourse to your beauty.
To make a perfect woman, she you kill'd
Even such a body: here I am Antony:
Is that his answer?
As many other mannish cowards have
To our most fair and princely cousin Katharine;
Render to me some corporal sign about her,
Stay, good my lords,
Will or exceed the common or be caught
For, whilst our pinnace anchors in the Downs,
Re-enter WORCESTER
What, hoa! Got pless your house here!
You must not deny me: I must go with you to Belmont.
The gods protect you!
Ten leagues beyond man's life; she that from Naples
Poor soul, thy face is much abused with tears.
O most false love!
We thank your honour.
That I did never, no, nor never can,
And sleep in peace, slain in your country's wars!
Into destruction cast him.
Fillet of a fenny snake,
Enter EGLAMOUR
His old betrothed but despised;
Ha! a drum ? Thou'rt quick,
That's no matter: the feet might bear the verses.
The Greeks upon advice did bury Ajax
to a whipping, if you were but bound to't.
Whilst he that hears makes fearful action,
Hast thou no care of me? shall I abide
May not one speak?
Ay.
Nor I; my spirits are nimble.
a snapper-up of unconsidered trifles. With die and
Arms, take your last embrace! and, lips, O you
Have you thought on
for mine own part, I durst not laugh, for fear of
Know of the duke if his last purpose hold,
Some parcels of their power are forth already,
Unless it be to come before their time;
To a lady of France that he call'd Rosaline.
Ah, dear, if I be so,
My eyes, my lord, can look as swift as yours:
Come, mourn with me for that I do lament,
So horrid as in woman.
And leave him all; life, living, all is Death's.
Cyprus. Othello, the fortitude of the place is best
Tut, dun's the mouse, the constable's own word:
The lowest and most dejected thing of fortune,
Speaking lower
Like the old age.
Good morrow, gallants! want ye corn for bread?
It may be death.
The foul corruption of a sweet child's death.
I am no less in blood than thou art, Edmund;
Sir, you o'er-rate my poor kindness: I was glad I
So in the Lethe of thy angry soul
They humbly sue unto your excellence
sacrifice: where air comes out, air comes in:
which should
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
I come to lose my arm, or win my sleeve.
Break up their drowsy grave and newly move,
Be not afraid: I met her deity
And then hurl down their indignation
Good morr ow, lords:
his grace, and his majesty too!
You thief of love! what, have you come by night
Enter DOGBERRY, VERGES, and the Watch, with CONRADE and BORACHIO
Encompass'd with thy lustful paramours!
True, my good lord; I know you for no less.
As venom toads, or lizards' dreadful stings.
Turn back and fly, like ships before the wind
all power from the people and to pluck from them
Master lieutenant, pray you, by your leave,
I hold as little counsel with weak fear
Enter LAERTES, armed; Danes following
With sweet enlargement doth dismiss me hence:
Extended or contracted all proportions
Is led on in the conduct of my will;
Our Perdita is found.
Exeunt
Or be ye not henceforth call'd my children.
That, with his pretty buzzing melody,
So justly to your grave ears I'll present
spit in his face, so she defied him.
Where, I confess, I slept not, but profess
'Tis a brave army,
What, would you bury him in my despite?
To who shall find them.
I pray you, father, being weak, seem so.
One jot of ceremony.
More honourable state, more courtship lives
Therefore meet.
As it rain'd kisses.
On thine allegiance, hear me!
say Amen. What ho! my Lord Achilles!
Commanded always by the greater gust;
Fare thee well, dame, whate'er becomes of me:
But in what habit will you go along?
Who, hearing of your melancholy state,
'Twere childish weakness to lament or fear.
But can you affection the 'oman? Let us command to
To avert your liking a more worthier way
When creeping murmur and the poring dark
And say she uttereth piercing eloquence:
Will you sup there?
Hours dreadful and things strange; but this sore night
Alas! and would you take the letter of her?
Because my power is weak and all ill left:
To greet the king. So he thrived,
SCENE II. France. Plains in Anjou.
fardel will make him scratch his beard.
Breaking his oath and resolution like
And bring thy master home immediately.
Being distress'd, was by that wretch betray'd,
We must not rend our subjects from our laws,
For our beloved mother in her pains.
Are smother'd up, leads fill'd, and ridges horsed
May I change these garments?
purpose you undertake is dangerous; the friends you
By whom I grant she lives. 'Tis now the time
A braver soldier never couched lance,
restrained to keep him from stumbling, hath been
Thereof the raging fire of fever bred;
Upon our soldiers, we will retire to Calais.
Go, masters, get you home; be not dismay'd:
And do as I have bid you.
Out of the bloody fingers' ends of John.
then? In respect of the love he bears our house:
Whither I go, thither shall you go too;
O, he sits high in all the people's hearts:
And let's be red with mirth.
Come on, my son, in whom my house's name
But to be frank, and give it thee again.
Of thy dear husband, than that horrid act
Exeunt all but BUCKINGHAM and GLOUCESTER
of Cyprus gallants that would fain have a measure to
And frowning brow to brow, ourselves will hear
Some bastards too.
Your sense pursues not mine: either you are ignorant,
May pass into the presence of a king,
That were some spite: my invocation
Or so devote to Aristotle's cheques
Not to kill him, having a warrant for it; but to be
all outward behaviors seemed ever to abhor.
When there is such disorder in my wit.
But by the robbing of the banish'd duke.
What said he?
As goddess-like to her admired lays;
Courage and hope both teaching him the practise,
And so she shall; Lucentio shall make one,
The opening of his mouth; but suddenly,
Grandam, I will not wish thy fortunes thrive:
King Henry the Fifth, too famous to live long!
He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave
A very excellent piece of villany:
And what should I do in Illyria?
Well, do not then; for since you love me not,
about Signior Leonato's door; for the wedding being
That the stretching of a span
And with dead cheeks advise thee to desist
But he, my lord, is gone to Ravenspurgh,
What Venus did with Mars.
Goes it against the main of Poland, sir,
Romeo is coming.
Such as seafaring men provide for storms;
My lord so please you, these things further
Of monstrous lust the due and just reward:
lads, I am glad you have the money. Hostess, clap
Trebonius doth desire you to o'erread,
But say, I pray, what nobleman is that
Hath nodded him to her. He hath given his empire
Mine hair be fixed on end, as one distract;
Such as we see when men restrain their breath
'Faith, for their poverty, I know not where they had
And follows but for form,
I will have nothing else but only this;
For this relief much thanks: 'tis bitter cold,
No more do yours: your virtues, gentle master,
beard is turned white with the news: you may buy
Pass'd over to the end they were created,
Do not omit the heavy offer of it:
The worm of conscience still begnaw thy soul!
Your highness aims at, if I aim aright.
The state of man in divers functions,
Bid every noise be still: peace yet again!
[Aside]  Well, I perceive
Being purged, a fire sparkling in lovers' eyes;
falsely accused, the prince and Claudio mightily
Your grace?
When a man's servant shall play the cur with him,
Leave all the rest to me.
We are sent
Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England,
beguiled Master Slender of his chain cozened him of
Not sick, although I have to do with death,
That they may seem the taints of liberty,
Nor do I now make moan to be abridged
Prick'd to't by foolish honesty and love,
That cries 'Retire,' if Warwick bid him stay.
Enter MENENIUS, COMINIUS, SICINIUS, BRUTUS, and others
We were dissuaded by our wicked queen;
Benedick, Don John, and all the gallants of the
It looks a little paler: 'tis a day,
And feeds from home; poor I am but his stale.
We will for Ireland; and 'tis time, I trow:
Blotting your names from books of memory,
Courteous lord, one word.
carrying your letter.
Falls not the axe upon the humbled neck
should not pass here; no, though it were as virtuous
To find his title with some shows of truth,
Exeunt
With this field-dew consecrate,
Even like the deed that's done. On Tuesday last,
With painted imagery had said at once
Most cruel to herself. What she confess'd
Jove knows I love: But who?
Have at thee!
uncapable of pity, void and empty
And stolest away the ladies' hearts of France,
With what contempt he wore the humble weed,
What, will your highness leave the parliament?
your lordship.
Love takes the meaning in love's conference.
Or stand so mammering on. What! Michael Cassio,
What's he that follows there, that would not dance?
Here is the man.
To understand a law, to know the meaning
Cheque'd like a bondman; all his faults observed,
And have prevail'd as much on him as you.
Exit CORNWALL, led by REGAN
Whither is he going?
Exit Servingman
'Tis grace indeed.
O, soft, air! hold you still:
By mingling them with us, the honour'd number,
And then when poison'd hours had bound me up
If I speak like a captain.
A native slip to us from foreign seeds:
I do not see them bleed.
Too oft before their buttons be disclosed,
Madam, here comes my lord.
No, not to be so odd and from all fashions
Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
merely poison! Nothing I'll bear from thee,
To bear my greeting to the senators
The young man is an honest man.
O monstrous! monstrous!
There's a good mother, boy, that blots thy father.
on the voice of occupation and
The king, thy sovereign, is not quite exempt
praising myself, who, I myself will bear witness, is
Even women have cast off, melt thee, but be
Where we shall find him most conveniently.
knowledge?
I fear neither sword nor fire.
His arms in this sad knot.
wraths, and his cholers, and his moods, and his
Who stock'd my servant? Regan, I have good hope
And if he be not fought withal, my lord,
Amen. So fall to't:
You, the great toe of this assembly?
Let me desire your company: he must come,
Not rascal-like, to fall down with a pinch,
Than I am able to instruct or teach:
With certain half-caps and cold-moving nods
Your lady is forthcoming yet at London.
To do a thing, where I the issue doubted,
In the disposing of new dignities.
This cause of Rome and chastised with arms
On Wednesday next we solemnly set down
Enter MICHAEL
In truth, la, go with me; and I'll tell you
And, stickler-like, the armies separates.
I have no exquisite reason for't, but I have reason
brother's evil disposition made him seek his death;
Can I demand.
Enter two other Soldiers
Therefore, I say--
Cry, Trojans, cry! a Helen and a woe:
I pray thee, lend me thine.
[Aside]                 What's that to him?
I tore them from their bonds and cried aloud
To climb his happiness, would be well express'd
No use of metal, corn, or wine, or oil;
Our son and daughter shall in Tyrus reign.
By that which knitteth souls and prospers loves,
Re-enter FERDINAND, BIRON, LONGAVILLE, and DUMAIN, in their proper habits
love-broker in the world can more prevail in man's
infect yourself with them?
Enter PANDARUS
If thou stand excommunicate and cursed?
themselves;
And once again we'll sleep secure in Rouen.
As thou wilt win my favour, good my knave,
Took their discharge.
Prouder than rustling in unpaid-for silk:
God bless your worship!
worthiness would stir it up where it wanted rather
you, who, as I take it, have stolen his birds' nest.
Of thy assault: if he shall think it fit,
Where's my brother?
So please you, let me now be left alone,
You see me, Lord Bassanio, where I stand,
Your will to mine,--and you, sir, hear you,
And trow you what he called me?
Make Cressid's name the very crown of falsehood,
Ay.
What's that 'ducdame'?
I made unto the noise; when soon I heard
Where, for these many hundred years, the bones
Caesar, that hath more kings his servants than
Show me thy thought.
Most noble! in the presence of thy corse?
And the blots of Nature's hand
young earl. Beware of them, Diana; their promises,
Or ne'er return again into my sight.
Now, Balthasar,
Laid open all your victories in Scotland,
So thou wilt let me live, and feel no pain.
Than a graced palace. The shame itself doth speak
That never object pleasing in thine eye,
My lord,
Ay; and let none enter, lest I break your pate.
It must and shall be so: content thyself.
What heard you him say else?
Lionel Duke of Clarence: next to whom
Last night you did desire it: speak not to us.
He may not, as unvalued persons do,
True, too true, my lord:
Be a whore still: they love thee not that use thee;
I never kill'd a mouse, nor hurt a fly:
And he that otherwise accounts of me,
Till further settling.
swaggering accent sharply twanged off, gives manhood
As more at large your grace shall understand.
have him now,--and there,--and there again, and there.
Eight thousand and four hundred; of the which,
'Tis most strange,
Tell me wherein have I offended most?
And so, good night.
Killing them twice. O, give us leave, great king,
four legs; for it hath been said, As proper a man as
I left them all in health.
And I have horse will follow where the game
Then I repent not.
What shall be our sport, then?
And furthermore, well have the Lord Say's head for
Here lives a caitiff wretch would sell it him.'
When icicles hang by the wall
begged. I have your alms: adieu.
He wrought upon her.
Give him deserved vexation. Let a guard
I am heartily glad I came hither to you. If he come
I pray thee, pretty York, who told thee this?
To guard the chicken from a hungry kite,
Sir tell me not of the father; I do fear colourable
'Tis true, fair daughter; and this blessed day
And burn in many places; on the topmast,
Were placed the heads of Edmund Duke of Somerset,
SCENE III. Warkworth castle
Never was monarch better fear'd and loved
Well said; come on.
And feed his humour kindly as we may,
By heaven, my heart is purged from grudging hate:
Now, by thy looks
These four will change habits, and present the other five.
Naught rests for me in this tumultuous strife
Here comes the Briton: let him be so entertained
I would deny it; but you see my finger
How durst thy tongue move anger to our face?
But in his motion like an angel sings,
What, is my beaver easier than it was?
The first and second cause will not serve my turn;
How have I sworn!
'Be serviceable to my son,' quoth he,
Unscissor'd shall this hair of mine remain,
She bids you on the wanton rushes lay you down
Together with that fair and warlike form
Why, this's a heavy chance 'twixt him and you,
O, take the sense, sweet, of my innocence!
'lordship:' I ne'er drank sack in my life; and if
One general tongue unto us, this good man,
In terms of choice I am not solely led
I am your lordship's.
But is my husband coming?
six time pieced and a woman's crupper of velure,
letters of commendations to the king.
In workmanship and value; which I wonder'd
Of my obscured course; and shall find time
Why doth the Jew pause? take thy forfeiture.
Nature dispenses with the deed so far
Outvenoms all the worms of Nile, whose breath
of Hero's disloyalty that jealousy shall be called
dimensions, senses, affections, passions? fed with
Ned, where are our disguises?
Some such thing
Who is it that hath died for this offence?
And quietness, grown sick of rest, would purge
Give me thy torch, boy: hence, and stand aloof:
The captain that did bring me first on shore
Sent down among 'em, which hath flaw'd the heart
That's true; make no question of that. 'Two and
'Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,
Your name, fair gentlewoman?
Perhaps you have learned it without book: but, I
You have been talk'd of since your travel much,
Looks fearfully in the confined deep:
After summer merrily.
I will be bold with time and your attention:
might be knighted. I shall think the worse of fat
extenuated, wherein he was worthy, nor his offences
Why, York, what wilt thou do?
him.
No danger in what show of death it makes,
To go along with us; for as we think,
Is't possible?
Will make this sting the sooner. Cardinal Campeius
On all that need: let me report to him
Neither of either; I remit both twain.
Is not that he?
abroad: this letter will tell you more.
How! the prince is a Jack, a sneak-cup: 'sblood, an
As he regards his aged father's life.
Come, sir, are you ready for death?
Thy token of reprieve.
Than boys pursuing summer butterflies,
than a monkey: I will weep for nothing, like Diana
as crest-fallen as a dried pear. I never prospered
On thee, the troubler of the poor world's peace!
Than ever you or yours were by me wrong'd!
Going to chapel; and the voice is now
This is the door.
This rock and these demesnes have been my world;
My rest and negligence befriends thee now,
'Tis not enough our foes are this time fled,
And our weak spirits ne'er been higher rear'd
What were you talking of when I came? Was Hector
I'll teach you how you shall arraign your conscience,
Thou rascal, that art worst in blood to run,
You spurn'd me such a day; another time
For divers unknown reasons. I beseech you,
[Aside]  His steel was in debt; it went o' the
And by my body's action teach my mind
Sir, I confess the wench.
Prithee, if thou lovest me, tell me.
Let him that is a true-born gentleman
For I myself am not so well provided
shall get it with running. Sa, sa, sa, sa.
But this denoted a foregone conclusion:
O sovereign mistress of true melancholy,
Is it good den?
Richmond is on the seas.
Which makes him prune himself, and bristle up
My friends,
That was expected by the Dauphin here,
O despiteful love! unconstant womankind!
No;
In strange eruptions; oft the teeming earth
Do not repent these things, for they are heavier
Hold you his hands, whilst I do set it on.
I shall remain your debtor.
That were most precious to me. Did heaven look on,
A married man! that's most intolerable.
like your old ling and your Isbels o' the court:
How now, how now! what's the matter?
First to my God and next unto your grace.
Yourself shall give us counsel. Feed, and sleep:
Considers she my possessions?
Now they are clapper-clawing one another; I'll go
And France, whose armour conscience buckled on,
This bold bad man.
they dare not fight with me, because of the queen my
I must love you, and sue to know you better.
Fear me not:
Ah, what's more dangerous than this fond affiance!
Your wrongs do set a scandal on my sex:
Never to England shall he bear his life;
Enter ORLANDO
cudgelled, they would melt me out of my fat drop by
The tyranny of the open night's too rough
Where lies thy grief, O, tell me, good Dumain?
derogation in't?
A sign of dignity, a garish flag,
I carried from thee, dear; and my true lip
Which should be thine or his: silenced with that,
In leads or oils? what old or newer torture
Hath made me publisher of this pretence.
But even the mere necessities upon 't.
What a pair of spectacles is here!
Or ere I'll weep. O fool, I shall go mad!
They draw
I'll rather dwell in my necessity.
In thee at once; which thou at once wouldst lose.
Ah, what a life were this! how sweet! how lovely!
Captain, I will.
To one man's honour, this contagious sickness,
That they supposed I could rend bars of steel,
The country base than to commit such slaughter
That every man should take his own,
Faith, my lord,
Met in the vale of Andren.
And sure I am two men there are not living
And therein fasting, hast thou made me gaunt:
Troilus will stand to the proof, if you'll
The truth is then most done not doing it:
In your close patience.
I would you knew:
O, how this mother swells up toward my heart!
To vouch this, is no proof,
a-foot.' What say you to that?
The oaks bear mast, the briers scarlet hips;
Why, man?
Ay, but yet
Lest my remembrance suffer ill report;
Doth Arthur live? O, haste thee to the peers,
To the syllable.
That I return'd with simular proof enough
This fawning greyhound then did proffer me!
France were no place for Henry's warriors;
With sore distraction. What I have done,
Our great competitor: from Alexandria
But for their owner, master, and yourself.
With accusations, as I hear, more strong
lying asleep.
No, sooth, sir: my determinate voyage is mere
My leash unwillingly.
No more, I pray you.
I would all the world might be cozened; for I have
Be he the fire, I'll be the yielding water:
Then take my soul, my body, soul and all,
In some large measure to thy father's death,
Stifle the villain whose unstanched thirst
His body will I bear unto the king:
Shall we clap into't roundly, without hawking or
They shoot
The queen your mother, and your brother York,
I will say nothing.
Upon his party 'gainst the Duke of Albany?
For by his fall my honour must keep high.
Within the fore-rank of our articles.
Then bid me kill myself, and I will do it.
In Helicanus may you well descry
For your partaker Pole and you yourself,
Will hum about mine ears, and sometime voices
reproof and rebuke from every ear that heard it.
And in the fountain shall we gaze so long
Please you, draw near. Louder the music there!
To assist my simpleness.
God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together;
Once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more;
how many is killed?
not me: therefore I am no sheep.
But I am troubled here with them myself;
O my prophetic soul! My uncle!
That he thereby may give a likely guess
Come in with me, Thersites.
SCENE II. The country near Dunsinane.
Than is his use.
And sure, unless you send some present help,
I'll to the doctor: he hath my good will,
And so have I, boy.
will be a biting affliction.
But an unkind self, that itself will leave,
Farewell the plumed troop, and the big wars,
Happy return be to your royal grace!
says the fiend, 'and run.' Well, my conscience,
Is the fool sick?
falsely accused by the villain.
By which he did ascend. So Caesar may.
Sir,
are yours; so is your diamond too: if I come off,
For friendly counsel cuts off many foes.
It does, my lord.
They were traitors: honourable men!
which I hear from common rumours: now Lord Timon's
This very night at one another's heels,
Enter, with drum and colours, ALBANY, GONERIL, and Soldiers
Once more we sit in England's royal throne,
'Stuprum. Chiron. Demetrius.'
Thanks, Reignier, happy for so sweet a child,
and an express command, under penalty, to deliver
What art thou?
What is 't o'clock?
Must he needs die?
My name is Thyreus.
monarch? I should venture purgatory for't.
His livery, and deny his offer'd homage,
When I did first impart my love to you,
the feast,--
their queen.
Cambio!
Welcome, Sir Diomed! here is the lady
With casted slough and fresh legerity.
Made hard with hourly falsehood--falsehood, as
Alack, poor Richard! where rode he the whilst?
Here they're but felt, and seen with mischief's eyes,
Exit
Must tarre the mastiffs on, as 'twere their bone.
according to his cue.
Will make him say I moved him to those arms.
Did worthily perform; and I must use you
He never would have stay'd in France so long.
My tongue could never learn sweet smoothing word;
These lords are visited; you are not free,
home full numbers. I find here that Don Peter hath
So is she heir of Naples; 'twixt which regions
So smooth he daub'd his vice with show of virtue,
As I remember, Adam, it was upon this fashion
What, thou meanest an officer?
So I say.
Yes, that thou didst: didst thou see any thing?
And then return and sleep within mine inn,
Arise, black vengeance, from thy hollow cell!
Ay, ay, he told his mind upon mine ear:
With all the spots o' the world tax'd and debosh'd;
How well he's read, to reason against reading!
It fits, when such a villain is a guest:
With her that hateth thee and hates us all,
faults whipped them not; and our crimes would
Can tie the gall up in the slanderous tongue?
And you were Isabel! should it then be thus?
I must tell thee, sirrah, I write man; to which
the reason why they are not so punished and cured
Our fears do make us traitors.
And free us from his slavery.
These are the parents to these children,
We shall be charged again. Whiles we have struck,
king, be his cause never so spotless, if it come to
As plates dropp'd from his pocket.
Before the gods my knee shall bow my prayers
Belike this show imports the argument of the play.
say they are Persian attire: but let them be changed.
I have done. Come, you promised me a tawdry-lace
himself on the forehead, crying, 'Peer out, peer
Confess the truth, and say by whose advice
not me, nor I him: he hath neither Latin, French,
Measureless liar, thou hast made my heart
Hath stay'd upon some favour that it loves:
Breaks scurril jests;
One o' these maids' girdles for your waist should be fit.
Suffer them now, and they'll o'ergrow the garden
This is the very ecstasy of love,
I would you rather had been silent. Please you
Perform'd to your sole daughter.
deceived even your very eyes: what your wisdoms
Enter BENVOLIO and MERCUTIO
And 'twixt the green sea and the azured vault
Hast thou the flower there? Welcome, wanderer.
Now mark me, how I will undo myself;
O gentle lady,
True! O God!
Bind fast his corky arms.
That you start at it? I say, I am your mother;
Talkers are no good doers: be assured
I came from Edward as ambassador,
Doth not thy embassage belong to me,
And yet she takes exceptions at your person.
Bind Dromio too, and bear them to my house.
The pleasure that some fathers feed upon,
For this proud mock I'll be thy slaughterman;
Be you content, fair maid;
Noblest of men, woo't die?
In buckram?
Thou mightst as well say I love to walk by the
Deliver them, and your appeal to us
Lest, being seen, thy brother, tender George,
Like an old tale: but it appears she lives,
All this divided York and Lancaster,
Doth the inconsiderate take salve for l'envoy, and
And do you tell me of a woman's tongue,
Stay you, good gentlemen. Look you pale, mistress?
Can cunning sin cover itself withal!
How many days will finish up the year;
O, could their master come and go as lightly,
Is't not enough thou hast suborn'd these women
time this two and thirty years; God reward me for
Get you to bed again; it is not day.
comfort; your son will not be killed so soon as I
And put these same into young Arthur's hand,
not beneath him in fortunes, beyond him in the
And I'll request your presence.
God grant we never may have need of you!
Here tend the savage strangeness he puts on,
Exit an Attendant
Come, you are pleasant.
I will prevent this, detect my wife, be revenged on
To beautify him, only lacks a cover:
My grief was at the height before thou camest,
Marry, beshrew my hand,
Why only, Suffolk, mourn I not for thee,
SCENE II. The island. Before PROSPERO'S cell.
Good Lord, what madness rules in brainsick men,
That so she died; for her physician tells me
And waked half dead with nothing. Worthy Marcius,
'Tis time must do. Beseech your majesty,
And made a push at chance and sufferance.
Discovering himself
I still win of you: for my sake wear this;
How!
Made many princes thither frame,
Sweet remembrancer!
nor never break for urging. If thou canst love a
their possets,
And made between's by vows. Thou hast found mine;
That hid the worse and show'd the better face.
I think not so.
the blessed sun of heaven prove a micher and eat
I will avouch in presence of the king:
Here's Lucentio,
God and our innocency defend and guard us!
nieces; Mercutio and his brother Valentine; mine
this place is too cold for hell. I'll devil-porter
Where I may wallow in the lily-beds
swallowed than a flap-dragon.
Than had I seen the vaulty top of heaven
in the defence yet is weak: unfold to us some
Pronouncing that the paleness of this flower
Where fame, late entering at his heedful ears,
Upon this present action.
Exit BUCKINGHAM
On both his knees doth kiss King Richard's hand
know the dressy age dotes on--only got the tune of
O, know'st thou not his looks are my soul's food?
God ha' mercy on his soul!
Exeunt all but Malcolm and Donalbain.
That the poor soldier that so richly fought,
What's worse than murderer, that I may name it?
As I did stand my watch upon the hill,
What unaccustom'd cause procures her hither?
Francis!
Horns and shout within. LYSANDER, DEMETRIUS, HELENA, and HERMIA wake and start up
And that he is a bastard, not thy son:
and she sent over of the King of England's own
Or as one nail by strength drives out another,
But, bear-like, I must fight the course. What's he
Great King of England and my gracious lord,
For why, the fools are mad, if left alone.
Well, sir, be it as the style shall give us cause to
We must needs dine together. Sir, your jewel
Very well; and could be content to give him good
Send for your ring, I will return it home,
What! a knave too?
I love them as they weigh.
We may not think the justness of each act
SATURNINUS reads the letter
directly to say 'I love you:' then if you urge me
Let him, my son: he shall not need to grieve
Love me or love me not, I like the cap;
the sea, hold notwithstanding their freshness and
My heart is ten times lighter than my looks.
overfar believe that, yet thus far I will boldly
Will't please your highness walk?
Would I had known no more! but she must die,
Good morrow, kind Sir Eglamour.
To keep her still, and men in awe,
That we, the sons of brave Plantagenet,
My father was attached, not attainted,
Let me have men about me that are fat;
When Richmond was a little peevish boy.
As I have set it down.
Calchas' tent:
The safer sense will ne'er accommodate
Meet in one line; and vast confusion waits,
For well we know, no hand of blood and bone
Making another head to fight again.
To leave you in your madness, 'twere my sin:
She had; and would incense me
Nay, come your ways:
Nor never lay his wreathed arms athwart
This ring, you say, was yours?
That Lewis of France is sending over masquers
Draws out our miles, and makes them wearisome,
Against my brother's life.
Hath not her fellow.
any thing I want: offer me no money, I pray you;
Marry, my lord, lest, by a multitude,
of his eye, forehead, and complexion, he shall find
God's will and his pleasure, captain, I beseech you
Hath not old custom made this life more sweet
To one or two of these!
And bid me, when my fate would have me wive,
Until confirm'd, sign'd, ratified by you.
Wert thou environ'd with a brazen wall.
And with his varying childness cures in me
As easy mayst thou the intrenchant air
Pray ye, sir?
nick-name God's creatures, and make your wantonness
The fool no knave, perdy.
Exeunt
Come, the gods have done their part in you.
Send him to answer thee, or any man,
If I could shake off but one seven years
Unto another lady of esteem:
And yet dear too, because I bought mine own.
They had parted so much honesty among 'em
As those should do that had deserved his hate,
The sweet and bitter fool
And tell me, in the modesty of honour,
At any time, to grace my stratagems.
I have received letters from great Rome,
She holds her virtue still and I my mind.
It is the prince of palfreys; his neigh is like the
Ay, my good lord.
Uncase thee; take my colour'd hat and cloak:
What, are there but three?
As all things shall redound unto your good.
Cried 'O!' and mounted; found no opposition
No, say'st me so, friend? What countryman?
What manner of fellow was he that robbed you?
Swifter than arrow from the Tartar's bow.
The roughest berry on the rudest hedge;
Good my lord, take his offer; go into the house.
with him, if thou standest not i' the state of
And Nero will be tainted with remorse,
And cook to honest creatures: but 'tis not so;
estimation.'
I cannot blame her: by God's holy mother,
again; and after it again; and over and over he
Wept bitterly; and would I might be dead
With that keen appetite that he sits down?
I am thankful to you; and I'll go along
encounter, after we had embraced, kissed, protested,
That triumph thus upon my misery!
'Twas a sweet marriage, and we prosper well in our return.
Hast thou observed that? even she, I mean.
Ay, but you must confine yourself within the modest
And doubt not, sir, but she will well excuse
Exeunt LUCENTIO and BIANCA
I'll make him send for Lucius his son;
How say you now? Is it not past two o'clock? and
No had, my lord! why, did you not provoke me?
And so much duty as my mother show'd
Gave healthful welcome to their shipwreck'd guests;
Can serve my turn? 'Forgive me my foul murder'?
A cold and drowsy humour, for no pulse
Ah, ha, my lord, this prince is not an Edward!
heaved o'erboard, by this bottle; which I made of
Thy gory locks at me.
Flourish. Re-enter, from one side, SATURNINUS  attended, TAMORA, DEMETRIUS, CHIRON and AARON; from the other, BASSIANUS, LAVINIA, and others
Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia,
Doth with a twofold vigour lift me up
Although my body pay the price of it.
So near the cradle of the fairy queen?
Had I a steward
My heart will be a burthen to me. Leave me,
The birds chant melody on every bush,
if two such murderers as yourselves came to you,
Plainly conceive, I love you.
That most ingrateful boy there by your side,
A general praise to her, and care in us
Above the clouds, as high as heaven itself?
And descant on mine own deformity:
Ay, at Philippi.
There is no other way; 'tis she must do't:
He's alive, my lord.
Holding the eternal spirit against her will,
SCENE I. Paris. A hall of state.
This petty brabble will undo us all.
What's this but libelling against the senate,
His child, I wis, to incest bring;
Ay, my good lord.
Therefore take with thee my most heavy curse;
Let's be calm.
Which falls into mine ears as profitless
See you the fornicatress be removed:
Another general shout!
With this abundance of superfluous breath?
Your worship was wont to tell me that
Here, uncle Exeter, fill this glove with crowns,
Faith, madam, I have other holy reasons such as they
Exit
They'll open of themselves.
Would have him punished. And now to our French causes:
I know not what to do: I would to God,
Hold, worthy lady, hold:
Ha! what sayest thou? Why, the end is, he hath
The due of honour in no point omit.
Upon the sisterhood, the votarists of Saint Clare.
Is your lady come?
hath no drowning mark upon him; his complexion is
Writ in remembrance more than things long past:
With feigning voice verses of feigning love,
Then let your will attend on their accords.
So, get thee gone, that I may know my grief;
As one, in suffering all, that suffers nothing,
At your command. Know you the character?
look upon his school-master.
Does your worship mean to geld and splay all the
Persuade me to the murder of your lordship;
The back is sacrifice to the load. They say
frailty. You confess then, you picked my pocket?
Francis!
No humble suitors press to speak for right,
Be touch'd at very heart.
Ay, in truth, my lord;
To ORLANDO
Enter MACBETH
with us? we have sport in hand.
Mercy but murders, pardoning those that kill.
Nor to the motion of a schoolboy's tongue,
Comes from my pate as birdlime does from frize;
Touches us not with pity.
Against the blood that thou hast married?
As any man in Illyria, whatsoever he be, under the
Thou, Leonatus, art the lion's whelp;
Of pain: nay, we must think men are not gods,
Let me a little show it, even in this;
If thou keep promise, I shall end this strife,
It is no shame: the fellow finds his vein,
ram-tender, to offer to have his daughter come into
My lord, I will be ruled;
Gives way to us, I much fear. If you cannot
For truth to o'er-peer. Rather than fool it so,
Be a sufficient ransom for offence,
This widow lady? In her right we came;
Tell me her father's name and 'tis enough;
Inch-thick, knee-deep, o'er head and
And vows to crown himself in Westminster.
Came to the altar; where she kneel'd, and saint-like
Give me my armour.
Why, then, how stands the matter with them?
And make my senses credit thy relation
O woful day, O woful day!
I have not art to reckon my groans: but that
Which breathed this poison.
My learn'd lord cardinal,
And to my brother turn my blushing cheeks.
These high wild hills and rough uneven ways
What offence, sweet Beatrice?
I would cozen the man of his wife and do his service.
Hear you the news abroad?
That eyeless head of thine was first framed flesh
[Aside]  Mine honesty and I begin to square.
He came not back: he is or ta'en or slain.
Live, Brutus! live, live!
No evil lost is wail'd when it is gone.
Once, in a sea-fight, 'gainst the count his galleys
Can change their moons and bring their times about
Strangers in court do take her for the queen:
There's five to one; besides, they all are fresh.
Among the people gather up a tenth.
One, two, three: time, time!
Enter EMILIA
I will do so. But, look you, Cassius,
'Tis true:
I'm sure, in me.
Have almost stamp'd the leasing: therefore, fellow,
For Anjou and fair Touraine, Maine, Poictiers,
Of the most bloody nurser of his harms!
But is this true, sir?
I like not fair terms and a villain's mind.
And calls herself Revenge, and thinks me mad:
Ha! sayest thou so?
Or 'If we list to speak,' or 'There be, an if they might,'
very competent injury: therefore, get you on and
As the winter to foul weather.
They that must weigh out my afflictions,
Turn not thy scorns this way, Plantagenet.
Please it your majesty, this is the man
As for thee, boy, go get thee from my sight;
When I like your favour; for God defend the lute
I'm out of patience.
commodity of good names were to be bought. An old
generally?
Now, afore God--God forbid I say true!--
the pin-buttock, the quatch-buttock, the brawn
And since you could not be my son-in-law,
Exit
Cowardly knight! ill fortune follow thee!
Dispersed are the glories it included.
The gods confound them all in thy conquest;
Is't lawful, pray you,
And have a thousand times more cause than he
A sight most pitiful in the meanest wretch,
How do you both? you are manifest house-keepers.
As bondage e'er of freedom: here's my hand.
That doth accuse his master of high treason:
To do the office for thee of revenge,
By my troth, I'll tell thee, I am almost sick for
Clouds, dews, and dangers come; our deeds are done!
And not upon your maid.
We lose the better half of our possession:
That shall be up at heaven and enter there
His sword did ne'er leave striking in the field.
That he is thus cut off. Please it your honours
Pray God the plants thou graft'st may never grow.
That you are well acquainted with yourself,
King, be thy thoughts imperious, like thy name.
But, tell me, is young George Stanley living?
O!
I do, my lord.
Of colour like the red rose on triumphant brier,
To this chair bind him. Villain, thou shalt find--
My gracious liege, this too much lenity
She may more suitors have and me for one.
'Tis none of mine.
To SUFFOLK
You have undone a man of fourscore three,
Was done to death? and more than so, my father,
That's sorry yet for thee.
If I live to see it, I will never trust his word after.
The error of our eye directs our mind:
And saving those that eye thee!
Where this is question'd send our letters, with
Save thou the child, so we may all be safe.
The Florentines and Senoys are by the ears;
Do, good my friend.
Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,
Assist me, Tranio, for I know thou wilt.
Foul fiend of France, and hag of all despite,
O, they eat lords; so they come by great bellies.
like a malecontent; to relish a love-song, like a
Or wring redress from you. Hear me, O hear me, here!
Be not so holy-cruel: love is holy;
My masters, are you mad? or what are you? Have ye
Were it but told you, should be hooted at
My general cares not for you. Back, I say, go; lest
Again!
Over your threshold: moneys is your suit
My honest grief unto him; and, as my lord,
Enter NORFOLK, SUFFOLK, SURREY, and Chamberlain
Exit Servant
Without some treachery used to Valentine.
But come, my lord, let us away.
We'll take your offer kindly.
doth most mistake in her gifts to women.
SCENE I. London. The Parliament-house.
bawdy-houses, and one poor penny-worth of
BRABANTIO appears above, at a window
And if your grace mark every circumstance,
He hath good usage and great liberty,
Aiming, belike, at your interior hatred,
With sighs shot through, and biggest tears
Do not you meddle; let me deal in this.
That such a crafty devil as is his mother
if the old fantastical duke of dark corners had been
Switch and spurs, switch and spurs; or I'll cry a match.
Successful fortune, steel thy melting heart
met but they looked, no sooner looked but they
Exit
the soldier than in the scholar.
That done, conduct him to the drunkard's chamber;
Come, madam, come; I in all haste was sent.
Found his deserts: how innocent I was
that I have lost my edifice by mistaking the place
in her presence.
Your last service was sufferance, 'twas not
Are now on sale, and at our sheepcote now,
they have letters for him. Ere we were two days old
And will to France, hoping the consequence
Enter certain Romans, with spoils
And then dreams he of smelling out a suit;
A glooming peace this morning with it brings;
That would behold in me this shameful sport.
Speak ere thou diest.
Lucifer and Belzebub himself, it is necessary, look
Follow your function, go, and batten on cold bits.
You are welcome, masters; welcome, all. I am glad
To me inveterate, hearkens my brother's suit;
I did not think he had been acquainted with her.
I am for you again: pray you, sit by us,
But madam, I must trouble you again;
But none can cure their harms by wailing them.
No, cloven.
I do believe the swearer. What with me?
I'll tell you what, my cousin Buckingham,--
Familiar in his mouth as household words
Ay, and perversely she persevers so.
burden: do you sing it, and I'll dance it.
Fie, sirrah! a bawd, a wicked bawd!
Enter DUKE ORSINO, VIOLA, CURIO, and others
With looking on his life.
How he received you, let me be resolved.
Shall make it good, or do his best to do it,
Madam, madam!
Do not torment me: Oh!
But your legs should do it.
Enter GLOUCESTER and BUCKINGHAM, at several doors
Hath been my kinsman! O sweet Juliet,
Is to come in:
Now, tell me, Proteus, what's your will with me?
My mistress will before the break of day
Must kiss their own feet.
Egregious ransom.
Whose shadow the dismissed bachelor loves,
But be the serpent under't. He that's coming
nether-stocks.
Our offices and what we have to do
A goodly one; in which there are many confines,
For that which thou hast heard me speak to-night
SCENE IV. DUKE ORSINO's palace.
What, art thou mad?
And, sheriff, I will engage my word to thee
Of wounds two dozen odd; battles thrice six
You had not found me here so musical:
Must all determine here?
But send him back.
to your French slop. You gave us the counterfeit
The blood and courage that renowned them
It may be judged I made the duke away;
Can thereto frame his spirit.
Away, away, be gone.
And not be tied unto his brother's will.
Here, man; I am at thy elbow.
And a thousand fragrant posies.
The noise of battle hurtled in the air,
yourself and I will not be there; and when they
How does your grace?
O, that she knew she were!
Do so: to ebb
Or more than common fear of Clifford's rigour,
Thank me, sir, for what?
Enter, below, MARCUS ANDRONICUS and Tribunes; re-enter SATURNINUS and BASSIANUS, attended
Before his chaps be stain'd with crimson blood,
Exit EDGAR
Will force him think I have pick'd the lock and ta'en
A storm or robbery, call it what you will,
Can I not say, I thank you? My better parts
The clouds methought would open and show riches
Thou hast not half that power to do me harm
This sickly land might solace as before.
Swords! any thing, he cares not; an the devil come
Thou art a fool: if Echo were as fleet,
Why sinks that cauldron? and what noise is this?
Jack Rugby!
Madam, here comes my lord.
That mouldeth goblins swift as frenzy's thoughts.
If I be so disgracious in your sight,
Than these poor compounds that thou mayst not sell.
very monster in apparel, and not like a Christian
Give him a box o' the ear and that will make 'em red again.
And what's
Can labour ought in sad invention,
Thou darest not this and that to prove more fortunes
Point against point rebellious, arm 'gainst arm.
You know me well, and herein spend but time
Fetch from false Mowbray their first head and spring.
Ask me what question thou canst possible,
Why droops my lord, like over-ripen'd corn,
From heart of very heart, great Hector, welcome.
He's very likely now to fall from him,
With an unquiet soul. You shall have gold
And it is marvel he out-dwells his hour,
And, whilst thou lay'st in thy unhallow'd dam,
And could not get him for my heart to do it.
all the country is laid for me; but now am I so
I learn in this letter that Don Peter of Arragon
That we have stol'n what we do fear to keep!
When I do see the very book indeed
I am sure thou dost.
I, her frail son, amongst my brethren mortal,
I do not like the office:
And if we be, how dare thy joints forget
Pandarus,--
Because that I am little, like an ape,
You should account me the more virtuous that I have
not prophesy so.
my wish hath a preferment in 't.
My lord, you take us even at the best.
Katharina, I charge thee, tell these headstrong women
And call it accident.
swearings and starings, pribbles and prabbles?
How like the empress and her sons you are!
And from his mother's closet hath he dragg'd him:
Were in wild hurry. Here do we make his friends
I would they were abed!
that's no matter, the greater part carries it. I
Come, the full stop.
Their candles are all out. Take thee that too.
The cry is still 'They come:' our castle's strength
Thy business?
Of England's coat one half is cut away.
A fellow to it.
And I will.
And merely to revenge him on the emperor
Should he 'scape Hector fair: if he were foil'd,
Wilt thou not, Jule?' it stinted and said 'Ay.'
hoof is more musical than the pipe of Hermes.
And what wit could wit have to excuse that?
And all the conduits of my blood froze up,
I give consent to go along with you,
For me, I'll not be gone till I please myself:
I am the Prince of Wales; and think not, Percy,
You may, indeed, say so;
Flow'd with her beauty once: 'tis shrewdly ebb'd,
There did this perjured goldsmith swear me down
For none abides with me: my joy is death;
For yet is hope of life and victory.
To deck our soldiers for these Irish wars.
O night, which ever art when day is not!
Enter PAGE, FORD, MISTRESS PAGE, and MISTRESS FORD
The harmony of their tongues hath into bondage
Truly, however else.
And hews down oaks with rushes. Hang ye! Trust Ye?
[Aside to ISABELLA]   That's well said.
Doth he so seek his life?
But here's a villain that would face me down
Every man's conscience is a thousand swords,
And leave you to the hearing of the cause;
Nay, stay; by Jove, I will not speak a word:
That they are not the first of fortune's slaves,
And conquer'd it, Cassibelan, thine uncle,--
Tabours and cymbals and the shouting Romans,
Soldiers, adieu! I have what I would have,
and sepulchre. Hob, nob, is his word; give't or take't.
Nuncle Lear, nuncle Lear, tarry and take the fool
To make the coming hour o'erflow with joy
It proves not so: their battles are at hand;
In time of action. I stand condemn'd for this;
As sense cannot untie. Be what it is,
The scarfed bark puts from her native bay,
Tyrannical power: if he evade us there,
And here comes Claudio's pardon.
So fare you well at once; for Brutus' tongue
carrying gates. I am in love too. Who was Samson's
To yield your voices?
But dead, thy kingdom cannot buy my breath.
And abstinence engenders maladies.
Did I redeem; a wreck past hope he was:
Where honourable rescue and defence
And thus far clear him. Now, what moved me to't,
What, hast thou been long blind and now restored?
And one man in his time plays many parts,
I warrant you, when time is serve.
And some such strange bull leap'd your father's cow,
Were you a woman, as the rest goes even,
To have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
Let us go see your son, I pray you: I long to talk
From Richard's night to Bolingbroke's fair day.
In equal scale weighing delight and dole,--
Enter a Messenger
I will, my Hermia.
Bring us to his cave:
Re-enter HERMIA
To pluck his indignation on thy head
That ran through Caesar's bowels, search this bosom.
Pantingly forth, as if it press'd her heart:
A fortnight and odd days.
'Sigeia tellus,' disguised thus to get your love;
I will not fight with a pole, like a northern man:
Since the first father wore it: this ring he holds
In wisdom I should ask thy name;
Sir, look well to my husband's house; and--
Kind my lord.
Love, lend me wings to make my purpose swift,
The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom:
O, relation
scurvy, lousy knave, God pless you!
Sir, you cannot.
Than youthful April shall with all his showers:
For, O, love's bow
I'ld rather than the worth of thrice the sum,
If for his tender here I make some stay.
Hark, how hard he fetches breath. Search his pockets.
You scarce can right me throughly then to say
It is a peerless kinsman.
Mother, you have my father much offended.
Such strong renown as time shall ne'er decay.
What, no attendance? no regard? no duty?
Who since I heard to be discomfited.
I am no thing to thank God on, I would thou
The thing I have forsworn to grant may never
ease:' O, an you will have me live, play 'Heart's ease.'
Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain,
My health and happy being at your court.
With whom the Kentishmen will willingly rise:
Nay, but hear me:
Thy leg a stick compared with this truncheon;
Could great men thunder
Will it give place to flexure and low bending?
found my daughter?
Nor would your noble mother for much more
I will from hence to-day.
Tell him my fury shall abate, and I the crowns will take.
Chiron, thy years want wit, thy wit wants edge,
Then let them use us well: else let them know,
Oft does them by the weakest minister:
Sir, give him head: I know he'll prove a jade.
Some blessed power deliver us from hence!
Like to an enter'd tide, they all rush by
I gave thee mine before thou didst request it:
My fears forgetting manners, to unseal
Peace, wilful boy, or I will charm your tongue.
Who, though they cannot answer my distress,
He makes for England, there to claim the crown.
Thus are poor servitors,
If e'er thou look'dst on majesty.
tithing, and stock- punished, and imprisoned; who
To taste of too.
Such gain the cap of him that makes 'em fine,
See as thou wast wont to see:
The king is not at the palace; he is gone aboard a
That he is bound to? Wife, thou art a fool.
It is enough; I'll think upon the questions:
Beautiful tyrant! fiend angelical!
As curst, as harsh and horrible to hear,
And all the clouds that lour'd upon our house
Have you the lion's part written? pray you, if it
I am sick of this false world, and will love nought
Whereby my son is disinherited.
No, not to stay the grinding of the axe,
His acts being seven ages. At first the infant,
come to my ward; for thence will not I to-day.
Madam,
And bid mine eyes be packing with my heart
Whether our kinsman come to see his friends.
And like a mountain, not to be removed.
He said it would be thus, poor banish'd man!
And here I take the unfeigned oath,
There's daggers in men's smiles: the near in blood,
an addle egg.
wet me once, and the wind to make me chatter; when
By them shall make a fuller number up,
Alas, what danger will it be to us,
Until I know this sure uncertainty,
Since Cassius first did whet me against Caesar,
Bardolph's nose, and a' said it was a black soul
summer's day; a most lovely gentleman-like man:
Only for bearing burdens, and sore blows
Pray, good shepherd, what fair swain is this
And, like the haggard, cheque at every feather
I am not Adriana nor thy wife.
Which is for me less easy to commit
We are.
Bid your friends welcome, show a merry cheer:
You tell her so; must she not then be answer'd?
Shall disturb this hallow'd house:
A poor earl's daughter is unequal odds,
Many an English ditty lovely well
Nor, I'll assure you, better taken, sir.
I blame not her, she could say little less;
That little thought, when she set footing here,
His purse is empty already; all's golden words are spent.
Will praise a hand, a foot, a face, an eye,
My lords, then, under favour, pardon me,
Welcome, dread Fury, to my woful house:
I'll give thee, friend,
tender juvenal?
Drinks
So by his father lost: and this, I take it,
Not to them all.
into the water. Mistress Ford desires you to come suddenly.
betwixt my uncle and one of the emperial's men.
If thou art she, tell me where is that son
I then crave pardon of your majesty.
I know the hand: in faith, 'tis a fair hand;
And that the spoil got on the Antiates
The king's coming; I know by his trumpets. Sirrah,
Whose children he hath slain, their base throats tear
'Tis policy and stratagem must do
curiously, say my knife's naught. Shall I not find
Come pentecost as quickly as it will,
me: your name, I think, is Adrian.
Before you open it.
As well as I do know your outward favour.
For I am ignorant and cannot guess.
Esteem as foil wherein thou art to set
Than hope enjoy'd: by this the weary lords
Murder'd her kinsman. O, tell me, friar, tell me,
And would have kept so long as breath did last!
Must it be so? it must not be. My lords,
Enter YORK
And not so much to feed on as delight;
These couples shall eternally be knit:
Re-enter FRANCIS
We'll have him. Sirs, a word.
What a wicked beast was I to disfurnish myself
Of things that merchants sold. Therefore be cheer'd;
As merry as crickets, my lad. But hark ye; what
And lookest to command the prince and realm.
Though it be fit that Cassio have his place,
such dishes; they are not China dishes, but very
Help, grandsire, help! my aunt Lavinia
Says it will come to the full. Mark Antony
What, talking with a priest, lord chamberlain?
Is marching hitherward in proud array,
And so to Tripoli, if God lend me life.
I should to Plashy too;
Yea, mock the lion when he roars for prey,
The legions and the horse whole, do you not?
that's all the riches I got in his service.
Give me one poor request.
you'll sweat for't.
I will subscribe for thee, thou art both knave and fool.
Finish the process of his sandy hour,
Go to; away!
You were best to call them generally, man by man,
Varro's
For doughty-handed are you, and have fought
Ha!
For the inheritance of their loves and safeguard
Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbraced;
Even as she speaks, why, their hearts were yours;
If there be truth in sight, you are my daughter.
Subdues and properties to his love and tendance
By drunken prophecies, libels and dreams,
Welcome, my lord	what is the news?
The man's undone forever; for if Hector break not his
I know him now. Good God, betimes remove
Now leaves him.
And you that be the king's friends, follow me.
With more than half the Gallian territories,
Nay, I'll help too.
And thou possessed with a thousand wrongs,
I did, my lord.
Exeunt
At least into a jealousy so strong
Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing, unseen,
Enter JULIET and Nurse
Troilus will not come far behind him: let them take
And thou must make a dullard of the world,
Is yet unanswer'd. I will to your father:
What did you enact?
Are there such? such are not we: praise us as we
A knocking heard
Fool!
Fair one, I think not so.
Quick, quick, good hands.
Cassio shall have my place. And, sir, tonight,
Go some of you and fetch a looking-glass.
ACT IV
He and his forces enter the city
Dismounted from your snow-white goodly steed.
him. But to answer you as you would be understood;
What wilt thou do, renowned Faulconbridge?
The manner and the purpose of his treason;
Out three years old.
afterwards.
So great an object: can this cockpit hold
A poor soul's patience, all to make you sport.
Let all my sins lack mercy! O my father,
Edward, kneel down.
skim milk with so honourable an action! Hang him!
It is not nor it cannot come to good:
And I of him will gather patience.
wickedness: old folks, you know, have discretion,
For I the ballad will repeat,
My dear lord,
So York must sit and fret and bite his tongue,
Hold thee, there's my purse: I give thee not this
and here my melancholy. Well, she hath one o' my
And so in ours: some neighbouring nation,
Clock strikes
ladies' flesh at a million a dram, you cannot
The lion and the belly-pinched wolf
true descent;
very first house, of the first and second cause:
Thee they may hurt.
The town is ta'en!
Vat is you sing? I do not like des toys. Pray you,
Exit JOHN OF GAUNT
Tell me how thy lady does.'
Our masquing mates by this time for us stay.
A distaff to a lance, gilded pale looks,
peradventures shall tell you another tale, if
She that was ever fair and never proud,
Unlikely wonders; how these vain weak nails
That grudge one thought against your majesty!
That's false.
His answer was, he would unto the stews,
But if you fail, without more speech, my lord,
I tell you? Sir Toby, my lady prays you to have a
Exeunt
my tongue is too foolhardy; but my heart hath the
Think'st thou I am an executioner?
[Within]  I thought to have asked you.
And drive towards Dover, friend, where thou shalt meet
Prepare her ears to hear a wooer's tale
Burns with revenging fire; whose hopeful colours
Unveiling
Is powerful to araise King Pepin, nay,
I do beseech you, sir,
Exeunt
On Tuesday noon, or night; on Wednesday morn:
No, you shall pardon me.
What's he?
And quench'd the stelled fires:
Murder indeed, that bloody sin, I tortured
Will you walk in, my lord?
Where honeysuckles, ripen'd by the sun,
That else must perish here.
And being fap, sir, was, as they say, cashiered; and
You'll see your Rome embraced with fire before
What folly 'tis to hazard life for ill!
What's dearest to the world! Full many a lady
Along with me.
You suddenly arose, and walk'd about,
Of my lord's health, of his content, yet not
He is but mad yet, madonna; and the fool shall look
They choose Ladies for the dance. KING HENRY VIII chooses ANNE
Thou shalt have nothing but the forfeiture,
And ne'er prefer his injuries to his heart,
Than in our priest-like fasts: therefore I'll watch him
My nephew's trespass may be well forgot;
Proclaim a pardon to the soldiers fled
And posts, like the commandment of a king,
The meat was well, if you were so contented.
The want is but to put those powers in motion
And with my hand I seal my true heart's love.
Do not draw back, for we will mourn with thee
There comes the rain, there begins confusion.
upon great persuasion; and partly to save your life,
So shall I no whit be behind in duty
Alas, poor heart, that kiss is comfortless
To honour them:
There is my purse to cure that blow of thine.
Well, if ever thou dost fall from this faith, thou
Brother, she is not worth what she doth cost
Music, awake her; strike!
When time shall serve, let but the herald cry,
Let me have speech with you.
ACT V
What is 'Pourquoi'? do or not do? I would I had
Good reasons must, of force, give place to better.
He dies.
And give us notice of his inclination:
And should, if I were worthy to be judge,
Marry, sir, I would have some confidence with you
I smell the trick on't.
Pull'd the poor wretch from her melodious lay
Than to be under sail and gone to-night.
Exit BOYET
Good Costard, go with me. Sir, God save your life!
Well, whiles I am a beggar, I will rail
Not only with what my revenue yielded,
And rear'd aloft the bloody battle-axe,
yesty collection, which carries them through and
With hey, ho, the wind and the rain,--
To VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA,  and c
But where is Kate? where is my lovely bride?
You swore to me, when I did give it you,
Cry 'God save Richard, England's royal king!'
Thy soldier, servant; making peace or war
Our children and our sins lay on the king!
man, I think, that shall set them in present action.
She's not well married that lives married long;
ACT II
The oil, the balsamum and aqua-vitae.
And even in kind love I do conjure thee,
siege is given, is altogether directed by an
I would, therefore, my sister had had no name, sir.
As would take in some virtue. O my master!
If wind and fuel be brought to feed it with:
And many miles, the princess bids you tell
My lord, I will be thankful.
The king by this is set him down to sleep.
Though they themselves did suffer by't, behold
horns, Master Brook: and, Master Brook, he hath
helped her: there your charity would have lacked footing.
I cannot say the words.
Desires this ring; appoints him an encounter;
Is whispering nothing?
How does my father? Gentles, methinks you frown:
thy tabour?
To make commotion, as full well he can,
And change misdoubt to resolution:
We shall begin our ancient bickerings.
him in his own grease. Did you ever hear the like?
I remember
O, much I fear some ill unlucky thing.
the devil.
That this same very day your enemies,
Exeunt
Hark! our drums
With wings more momentary-swift than thought.
On Fortinbras: he has my dying voice;
merited, either in my mind or, in my means, meed,
Paris your brother, and Deiphobus,
And I do think, or else this brain of mine
That silverly doth progress on thy cheeks:
But when I came, some minute ere the time
What, neither?
O, full of scorpions is my mind, dear wife!
That our beat water brought by conduits hither;
If thy revenges hunger for that food
Exeunt MERCUTIO and BENVOLIO
The town might fall in fright: he, swift of foot,
Then with Scotland first begin:'
Sorely, to say I did; it is as bitter
Which with usurping steps do trample thee:
ass; though it be not written down, yet forget not
But they can see a sort of traitors here.
Your majesty says very true: if your majesties is
I am undone! The knight is here.
Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing;
me to the coming on of time, with 'Hail, king that
say is a gallimaufry of gambols, because they are
May concern Caesar.
Enter another Messenger
O, what a goodly outside falsehood hath!
Not for the world, fair madam, by my will.
How comes it? do they grow rusty?
And thou shalt find me at the governor's.
Enter RICHARD and SOMERSET to fight. SOMERSET is killed
I thank your lordship, you have got me one.
The armourer of my heart: false, false; this, this.
In which assault we lost twelve hundred men;
That cravens my weak hand. Come, here's my heart.
Enter FRANCIS
Forthwith we'll send him hence to Brittany,
snow, thou shalt not escape calumny. Get thee to a
Poison hath residence and medicine power:
I have, and most unwillingly, of late
her paint an inch thick, to this favour she must
I could have given my uncle's grace a flout,
Their scanted courtesy.
Know him I shall, I am well sure of it:
My lords, I thank you both for your good wills;
And very well appointed, as I thought,
Come, sir, to dinner. Dromio, keep the gate.
Many that have at times made moan to me;
Enter SCARUS
Let her awhile be secretly kept in,
[Aside to DONALBAIN]        Nor our strong sorrow
My thanks, sweet madam.
More than Octavius and Mark Antony
What's the matter, lady?
Wife, love Lord Hastings, let him kiss your hand;
Stoop low within those bounds we have o'erlook'd
If it were chain'd together, and therefore came not.
How near is he, Mistress Page?
why, this fellow has banished two on's daughters,
Put on with holy prayers: and 'tis spoken,
lopped branches, which, being dead many years,
What, will you not suffer me? Nay, now I see
Which they upon the adverse party want.
Rash, inconsiderate, fiery voluntaries,
Therefore, all hearts in love use their own tongues;
He be approved in practise culpable.
Here on my knee I vow to God above,
Hence! I am qualmish at the smell of leek.
Receive him, then, to favor, Saturnine,
And is not careful what they mean thereby,
And those but mean.
So many miseries have crazed my voice,
Or an old lion, or a lover's lute.
Avaunt, thou hateful villain, get thee gone!
I do, I will.
The sons of York, thy betters in their birth,
not with love: prove that ever I lose more blood
fast enough of themselves, and to call 'horum:' fie upon you!
Contempt and beggary hangs upon thy back;
apple, yet I can tell what I can tell.
Sound trumpets. Enter KING HENRY VI, QUEEN  MARGARET, GLOUCESTER, YORK, SUFFOLK, and SALISBURY;  the DUCHESS, MARGARET JOURDAIN, SOUTHWELL, HUME, and BOLINGBROKE, under guard
at Master Page's.
His eye begets occasion for his wit;
That before you, and next unto high heaven,
Here is no use for gold.
And the contrarious winds that held the king
Steps me a little higher than his vow
Cries of itself 'No more:' now breathless wrong
With this same very iron to burn them out.
These promises are fair, the parties sure,
I ha' told them over and over; they lack no
Enter CLEOPATRA led by CHARMIAN and IRAS; EROS following
Hadst thou no poison mix'd, no sharp-ground knife,
seest thou not what a deformed thief this fashion
For depravation, to square the general sex
That daily break-vow, he that wins of all,
Brief abstract and record of tedious days,
No more be done:
My tears that fall
Antony
Dear Celia, I show more mirth than I am mistress of;
Apt, in good faith; very apt. Well, go thy way; if
dear knight?
O, what a world of vile ill-favor'd faults
Fulvia!
Enter EDGAR
At that sad stop, my lord,
Of gold and jewels that I bobb'd from him,
Here comes Sir Toby halting; you shall hear more:
Lavinia, thou shalt be employ'd: these arms!
Peace, fool! I have not done.
had ten times more valour than this roaring devil i'
Only that the laws of England may come out of your mouth.
But makes one pardon strong.
Exeunt LADY CAPULET and Nurse
That she shall still be curst in company.
He is vex'd at something.
can witness.
So, so, my lord.
If you have stomach; the general state, I fear,
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO and FRIAR THOMAS
For prisoners ask'st thou? hell our prison is.
Be not offended; for it hurts not him
'Tis given with welcome: to feed were best at home;
A fellow by the hand of nature mark'd,
Go you, call hither my fool.
Now shame upon you, whether she does or no!
The party is gone, fellow Hector, she is gone; she
This is the excellent foppery of the world, that,
I say I love thee more than he can do.
As, to the Tower, I thought, I would have play'd
I do much wonder that one man, seeing how much
Exeunt all but KING HENRY
Sworn to us in your younger enterprise.
But, God he knows, thy share thereof is small:
particulars therein to a total.
Patience is scottish, and impatience does
SONG.
The flux of company:' anon a careless herd,
thy fury! Shall the elephant Ajax carry it thus? He
If it will not be, I'll leave you.
These cheeks are pale for watching for your good.
Ay, marry, is't.
Come, sir, I know what I know.
Good angels guard thy battle! live, and flourish!
Well-sailing ships and bounteous winds have brought
For which my sinews shall be stretch'd upon him.
And, by the near guess of my memory,
That which none else can utter. By this marriage,
Call forth your soothsayer: as I slept, methought
Her vestal livery is but sick and green
And be not proud: though all the world could see,
Thou'ldst thank me but a little for my counsel:
For what I bid them do: for we bid this be done,
Whom they have ravish'd must by me be slain.
Wear it, enjoy it, and make much of it.
A salve for any sore that may betide.
But, soft! I see the goldsmith. Get thee gone;
They converse apart
Of whom I hope to make much benefit;
O, that's as much as you would be denied
But your reason was not substantial, why there is no
And, princely peers, a happy time of day!
To tug and scamble and to part by the teeth
Deck'd with five flower-de-luces on each side;
When, Lucius, when? awake, I say! what, Lucius!
A pantler, not so eminent.
drink; but I tell you, my lord fool, out of this
But the free comfort which from thence he hears,
O, this is full of pity! Sir, it calls,
what a man cannot smell out, he may spy into.
Each corporal agent to this terrible feat.
Than that which dearest father bears his son,
SCENE V. Another room in LEONATO'S house.
Do you not smile at this, Lord Angelo?
Behold the wounds, the most unnatural wounds,
Under this conjuration, speak, my lord;
Look'd black upon me; struck me with her tongue,
Which we durst never yet, and with strain'd pride
more and leave this young man in pawn till I bring it you.
I must needs appear.
Claudio, walking in a thick-pleached alley in mine
An 'twould, you'ld carry half.
As that the villain lives which slaughter'd him.
Words sweetly placed and modestly directed.
him soundly, sir: well, was it fit for a servant to
So heavy as thou shalt not shake them off,
And hasten your return.
To hear her prayers for them, as now for us
Repair there to me.
But, soft you, let me be: pluck up, my heart, and
Here comes the herald of the French, my liege.
Grace go with you, sir!
King Pepin, which deposed Childeric,
With things forgotten. Kind gentlemen, your pains
to conceive, nor his heart to report, what my dream
Came he right now to sing a raven's note,
Bestride our down-fall'n birthdom: each new morn
Out upon him! prig, for my life, prig: he haunts
The gentle Thetis, and anon behold
How chance the prophet could not at that time
And such a wall, as I would have you think,
Is she not a modest young lady?
I prithee, let thy wife attend on her:
Now blessed be the great Apollo!
Enter another Messenger
Sparkles this stone as it was wont? or is't not
Of Lewis the Dauphin and that lovely maid:
Thou art a most pernicious usurer,
Being unprevented, to your timeless grave.
And suffer not dishonour to approach
Re-enter Pedant below; TRANIO, BAPTISTA, and Servants
But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son,--
Wilt thou betray thy noble mistress thus?
that's the end.
Give pardon to my speech:
But that I am as well begot, my liege,--
Thou losest labour:
My lord is not my lord; nor should I know him,
And me they left with those of Epidamnum.
But I fear
Why dost thou say King Richard is deposed?
In the converse of breath: your gentleness
Not fate, obedience, nor the hand of Mars
Some get within him, take his sword away:
And sandy-bottom'd Severn have I sent him
I've heard him utter to his son-in-law,
Renowned Lucius, from our troops I stray'd
Get ye all three into the box-tree: Malvolio's
Save him, save him!
Exeunt NORFOLK and SUFFOLK
Think not on 't, sir.
Thy valiantness was mine, thou suck'dst it from me,
Both in his words and meaning: he was never,
Why, then, it seems, some certain snatch or so
Women are soft, mild, pitiful and flexible;
Now do I long to hear how you were found;
god, that would not extend his might, only where
'Tis pretty, sure, and very probable,
Yea, and elsewhere, so far as my coin would stretch;
How sure you are my daughter. But, what music?
For I am sick and capable of fears,
Helen, I love thee; by my life, I do:
I'll to the wars, she to her single sorrow.
Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
That lies enclosed in this trunk which you
any convenience, an he were double and double a
And fame in time to come canonize us;
Forthwith from Ludlow the young prince be fetch'd
He was indeed the duke; out o' the substitution
Saints do not move, though grant for prayers' sake.
Each object with a joy: the counterchange
Your patience to you, and be well contented
Lord cardinal, he is your prisoner.
And bear him to the rock.
With divers-colour'd fans, whose wind did seem
Her richest lockram 'bout her reechy neck,
tromperies.
An it shall please you to break up
The presence of a king engenders love
Is but for two months victuall'd. So, to your pleasures:
contemplation of my travels, in which my often
prophecy, hark you: I advise you, let me not find
If they set down before 's, for the remove
Than from true evidence of good esteem
So I told him, my lord; and I said I heard your
While other men, of slender reputation,
Enter PEASEBLOSSOM, COBWEB, MOTH, and MUSTARDSEED
With thy black mantle; till strange love, grown bold,
But minister communication of
grains of wheat hid in two bushels of chaff: you
The feast is ready, which the careful Titus
And that is Claudio: I know him by his bearing.
So slight, unworthy and ridiculous,
Playing the mouse in absence of the cat,
By my troth, I was seeking for a fool when I found
Prays, and destroys the prayer; no midway
God I have as little patience as another man; and
That even cracks for woe! This chanced tonight.
Though my revenges were high bent upon him,
As knots, by the conflux of meeting sap,
Enter CRANMER
So excellent in art, and still so rising,
Lascivious Goth, and all the bitterest terms
Patience unmoved! no marvel though she pause;
An interlude!
For I am loath to break our country's laws.
At the sixth hour of morn, at noon, at midnight,
Enter GLOUCESTER and his DUCHESS
thing, as boys and women are for the most part
Upon agreement from us to his liking,
Farewell: the leisure and the fearful time
Kneel'd at my feet, and bade me be advised
Ay, dread queen.
hath not drunk ink: his intellect is not
The counsellor heart, the arm our soldier,
Under the conduct of bold Iachimo,
Therefore this maxim out of love I teach:
What maids lack from head to heel:
gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment,
Discomfited great Douglas, ta'en him once,
resolved to die.
Offence's gilded hand may shove by justice,
Here, here's gold for thee.
A wither'd hermit, five-score winters worn,
And both the princes had been breathing here,
What should we speak of
them all: and yet there has been earls, nay, which
Painted on a pole, and underwrit,
The gravity and stillness of your youth
So we, well cover'd with the night's black mantle,
you give me touch my palate adversely, I make a
His loving bosom to keep down his heart.
female,--which in the common is woman; which
beholding. Advise the duke, where you are going, to
night fourscore ducats.
And must I go to him?
But I say there is no hope in't: our throats are
I would not have your free and noble nature,
Myself am one made privy to the plot.
God Pardon him! I do, with all my heart;
Exit
Into the blind cave of eternal night.
Skill infinite or monstrous desperate.
The urging of that word 'judgment' hath bred a kind
You have done a brave deed. Ere you go, hear this:--
A merrier hour was never wasted there.
For it excels your first: or if it did not,
'E la mi,' show pity, or I die.'
thine, Ireland is thine, France is thine, and Harry
And be a day before our husbands home:
play with Laertes, or that you will take longer time.
If I but knew him, with my love and duty
Whose wisdom hath her fortune conquered:
You have heard of such a spirit, and well you know
Take you your instrument, play you the whiles;
When the rich blood of kings is set on fire!
I'd change my sex to be companion with them,
That's sure of death without it, at once pluck out
Follow the noise so far as we have quarter;
What, what, sweet-heart?
That you have bid us ask his liberty;
Now put your shields before your hearts, and fight
Than thou of them. Come all to ruin; let
Come hither, friend: where is the king my master?
I have.
Safe out of fortune's shot; and sits aloft,
O Warwick, I do bend my knee with thine;
Are our carnations and streak'd gillyvors,
ACT III
Their crownets regal, from the Athenian bay
Thou liest.
Vat is de clock, Jack?
But Joan la Pucelle shall be France's saint.
be granted to be much at one. But, Kate, dost thou
How many goodly creatures are there here!
Instinctively had quit it: there they hoist us,
Was levied in the body of a land.
[Aside]  He speaks the mere contrary; crosses love not him.
That murder'd me: I would forget it fain;
Kneels
And place your hands below your husband's foot:
I am gone, sir,
Gall! bitter.
sleep. Look, who comes here.
If thou delight to view thy heinous deeds,
Well, for two of them, I know them to be as
Leaving his body as a paradise,
As shall conveniently become you there:'
What will you give us?
E'en at hand, alighted by this; and therefore be
I will keep still with my philosopher.
do his worst. For you, be that you are, long; and
SCENE I. Alexandria. A room in CLEOPATRA's palace.
The town is empty; on the brow o' the sea
To carve out dials quaintly, point by point,
My lord, I did;
To kiss this shrine, this mortal-breathing saint:
Till that, I'll view the manners of the town,
As it was won with blood, lost be it so!
Now we have shown our power,
Where lies he?
That end upon them should be executed.
Art thou one of the Worthies?
As who would say, in Rome no justice were.
colour; some swooned, all sorrowed: if all the world
'Tis the French Dauphin sueth to thee thus.
Of fire and water, when their thundering shock
with love than I will get again with drinking, pick
Found in the pocket of the slain Roderigo;
I remember you, sir, by the sound of your voice: I
We will unite the white rose and the red:
Unseen, unvisited, much to our shame.
Oft have you--often have you thanks therefore--
One bred of alms and foster'd with cold dishes,
What art thou that dost grumble there i' the straw?
well proved again o' my side! I will not love: if
Resolve your angry father, if my tongue
The noble Paris and true Romeo dead.
There is the man of my soul's hate, Aufidius,
lady: make your excuse wisely, you were best.
Should be to be protected like a child.
She would applaud Andronicus' conceit:
In such a rein, in full as proud a place
And yet it irks me the poor dappled fools,
To show the line and the predicament
Thy Clarence he is dead that kill'd my Edward;
To it, boy! Marcus, loose when I bid.
He were an excellent man that were made just in the
Would I could meet that rogue Diomed! I would
Trumpets sound, and cannon shot off within
My duty then shall pay me for my pains:
My cousin Vernon, welcome, by my soul.
Enough.
it as any man in England. You are afraid, if you see
inconstant, and mutability, and variation: and her
To leave me but a little to myself.
An aged princess; many days shall see her,
After the battle let George Stanley die.
Stay:
In right and service of their noble country
The fifth, an hand environed with clouds,
What rein can hold licentious wickedness
I pray you, give me leave.
How darkly and how deadly dost thou speak!
Henry the Fifth he first train'd to the wars;
Perhaps I will return immediately:
Will take again your queen as yours at first,
With this, we charged again: but, out, alas!
nothing doubt you have store of thieves;
Before the sun shall see 's, we'll spill the blood
Home to my house. O most unhappy day!
Which waits upon worn times hath something seized
as great discreetly as we can.
Or else to wed Demetrius, as he would;
I commanded the sleeves should be cut out and
He hath indeed a good outward happiness.
Here in this country, where we now remain.
Were shame enough to shame thee, wert thou not shameless.
Hold up thy hand, make signal of thy hope.
You must away to-night.
unjust knave; I will no more trust him when he leers
Worse than a theft, no less than a traducement,
Run with these false and most contrarious quests
Shall I so much dishonour my fair stars,
It kept where I kept, I so dearly loved it;
Lies down
capable creature.
long spoon.
In an extravagant and wheeling stranger
And so did I.
'His garment!'
And makes himself an artificial night:
The pale moon shines by night:
Was yours by accident; had it gone with us,
How canst thou woo her?
cripple. But this reasoning is not in the fashion to
Exit
Alarum and retreat within. Re-enter EDGAR
And recks not his own rede.
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  I think he means to beg a
From Lionel Duke of Clarence, the third son
That Margaret shall be queen, and none but she.
The bounteous housewife, nature, on each bush
Exeunt
Prove our commodities. O dear son Edgar,
'Tis, 'tis his fortune.
where to have her.
You men of Angiers, open wide your gates,
Give me a cup of sack, rogue. Is there no virtue extant?
From whom this tyrant holds the due of birth
Unto Antonio's house: away! make haste.
2. Then, two Judges.
graves. Find out this villain, Edmund; it shall
My prophecy is but half his journey yet;
Stand fast;
Hence! wilt thou lift up Olympus?
And down, down, adown-a,  and c.
Get him to bed, and let his hurt be look'd to.
Is't possible that so short a time can alter the
And as he pluck'd his cursed steel away,
Be candidatus then, and put it on,
Lest I might anger thee.
The accuser and the accused freely speak:
For so he will'd it.
Without observance or respect of any,
Know the glove! I know the glove is glove.
Go, take it up unto thy master's use.
Another, with his finger and his thumb,
Wherein I mean to touch your love indeed,
there, his brother, the bull,--the primitive statue,
Unto the sovereign mercy of the king;
manners, Kate; and the liberty that follows our
coward on instinct. I shall think the better of
Sweet honey Greek, tempt me no more to folly.
Most brisky juvenal and eke most lovely Jew,
[Reads]  'Horatio, when thou shalt have overlooked
Exeunt
Trenched in ice, which with an hour's heat
'Now take them up,' quoth he, 'if any list.'
Marry, I will; and this is wisely done.
damned for killing him, from which no warrant can defend us.
For when would you, my liege, or you, or you,
hurt done!
hour is an honourable badge of the service; and I do
march of twelve-score. The money shall be paid
Untie the spell.
Alas, good lady!
be i' the camp, a Frenchman; what his reputation is
Becomes a woman best; I'll take't upon me:
Priam's slaughter: if it live in your memory, begin
The rites for which I love him are bereft me,
Than stands on any shoulder that I see
To whom the heavens in thy nativity
Of colour, weight, and heat, pour'd all together,
I'll see thee hang'd on Sunday first.
show himself what he is and steal out of your company.
That spits forth death and mountains, rocks and seas,
you? Show your knave's visage, with a pox to you!
Our fortune on the sea is out of breath,
My ancient incantations are too weak,
Is there not a ballad, boy, of the King and the Beggar?
Hence, broker-lackey! ignomy and shame
Nay, it makes nothing, sir.
for thee; let me have thy voice in my behalf: if
We do not look for reverence, but to love,
Call him hither, good Monsieur Le Beau.
I, by the honour of my marriage-bed,
To velvet-guards and Sunday-citizens.
We cannot hold mortality's strong hand:
She was of Tyrus the king's daughter,
Mark, I say, instantly; and carry it so
When you are dead, you should be such a one
Till half an hour hence.
Was round encompassed and set upon.
Why the King of France is so suddenly gone back
If truth holds true contents.
But for your health and your digestion sake,
Enter OTHELLO
Why did I marry? This honest creature doubtless
Which, if convenience will not allow,
As when brave Gaunt, thy father, and myself
So merry and so gamesome: he is call'd
Must you be therefore proud and pitiless?
The 'solus' in thy most mervailous face;
And meet him, were I tied to run afoot
Caesar than you shall do to Brutus. The question of
Le Roy! a Cornish name: art thou of Cornish crew?
The powers of us may serve so great a day
Thy love ne'er alter till thy sweet life end!
The injury of tongues in courts and kingdoms
Then shall we have a match. I have letters sent me
'Two boys, an old man twice a boy, a lane,
Here is the steed, we the caparison:
I'll canvass thee in thy broad cardinal's hat,
I kindle the boy thither; which now I'll go about.
My soul would sue as advocate for thee.
And so am I for no woman.
Where shall I meet you?
Why dost ask that? I have forgot all men;
and a good jest for ever.
Keep in a little life? Poor Jack, farewell!
Enter FLUELLEN and GOWER
That cures us both. I am much sorry, sir,
I paint him in the character. Mark what mercy his
after gift; smelling so sweetly, all musk, and so
I'll tell you what,--
Your friar is now your prince: as I was then
I'll stay a month longer. I am a fellow o' the
I did not, gentle husband, lock thee forth.
Peace, fool!
That you do love me, I am nothing jealous;
How should I be revenged?
some bodily wound; there is more sense in that than
For when the noble Caesar saw him stab,
dumb-show. Let us send her to call him in to dinner.
I knew 'twould be a bald conclusion:
Till I have brought him to his wits again,
Enter RICHARD, EDWARD, and MONTAGUE
loads o' gravel i' the back, lethargies, cold
Not to be gone from hence; for once I read
'Tis torture, and not mercy: heaven is here,
Proclaim our honours, lords, with trump and drum.
constrains a man to bow in the hams.
Will show you his estate.
This way to death my wretched sons are gone;
years in doing and now newly performed by that rare
O Helicanus, strike me, honour'd sir;
Yes, py'r lady; if he has a quarter of your coat,
And of his old experience the oily darling,
But for my hand, as unattempted yet,
O thou Othello, thou wert once so good,
I must from this enchanting queen break off:
To vie strange forms with fancy; yet, to imagine
If they will patiently receive my medicine.
Sir, I thought it fit
Shall, whiles thy head is warm and new cut off,
I would the gods had nothing else to do
Stealing her soul with many vows of faith
them had in them more feet than the verses would bear.
Of war-mark'd footmen; leave unexecuted
Prithee, tell me one thing first.
fetch him hither; go.
Who shall say me nay?
You speak not like yourself; who ever yet
Come on, sir; I shall now put you to the height of
Opposed to  hinder me, should stop my way,
Exit
So poorly in your thoughts.
What, dear sir,
And for his sake I wish the having of it;
Wherefore then
Brutus, this sober form of yours hides wrongs;
O upright judge! Mark, Jew: O learned judge!
But fetter you till death.
When cowardice pursues and valour flies.
The emperor's court is like the house of Fame,
Claudio shall render me a dear account. As you
Exit
Hang him, dishonest rascal! I would all of the same
[Aside]  O knowledge ill-inhabited, worse than Jove
O heaven!
Exeunt WORCESTER and VERNON, guarded
And therefore has he closely mew'd her up,
bed, and warm thee.
Nor is your firm resolve unknown to me,
We'll have a swashing and a martial outside,
Of every hearer: for it so falls out
It is a cause worthy my spleen and fury,
wisest. He shall taste of my bottle: if he have
Where goes Cesario?
O well-knit Samson! strong-jointed Samson! I do
Thank me no thankings, nor, proud me no prouds,
He will hear none: he hath evermore had the liberty
Marry, hang thee, brock!
It shall be done, my lord.
Lies in their purses, and whoso empties them
Then my dial goes not true: I took this lark for a bunting.
compass, Sir John.
What heart receives from hence the conquering part,
For what offence?
Of my more fierce endeavour: I have seen drunkards
crowns neither. Holla, Dennis!
I loved your father, and we love ourself;
And left thee to the mercy of the law.
Speak softly, or the loss of those great towns
Please your highness, note
I claim the promise for her heavenly picture.
Re-enter SEBASTIAN, ANTONIO, and GONZALO
Fair Lord AEneas, let me touch your hand;
Kingdoms are clay: our dungy earth alike
Thou couldst have spoke so well; ne'er dream'd thou couldst.
And then your highness shall command a peace.
The argument of your praise, balm of your age,
And when thy car is loaden with their heads,
And finding him, the searchers of the town,
knows me not: I will try confusions with him.
For God's sake, send some other messenger.
''Tis right:' quoth he; 'thus misery doth part
Forbiddenly.
Indeed, my lord, he lent it me awhile; and I gave
Sweet lovers love the spring.
Shame on himself! for my desert is honour:
Yet an arch-villain keeps him company.
Cromwell, I did not think to shed a tear
In faith, I'll break thy little finger, Harry,
Plutus himself,
Do't! he will do't; for, look you, sir, he has as
Famed be thy tutor, and thy parts of nature
And make your peace with Caesar.
Be rush'd upon! Thy thrice noble cousin
this month, you shall nose him as you go up the
Well, if you be a king crown'd with content,
and body's fostering patron.'
their father,
We must proceed as we do find the people.
All in gore-blood; I swounded at the sight.
Give up your keys.
How much unlook'd for is this expedition!
Peace, you rogue, no more o' that. Here comes my
Shall as a carpet hang upon thy grave,
The nobleman would have dealt with her like a
Was this inserted to make interest good?
In glittering golden characters express
If you say so, I hope you will not kill me.
his heart, upon the river of Cydnus.
Those are pearls that were his eyes:
Or, seeing it, of such childish friendliness
waiting-gentlewoman in the 'scape. This has been
When I spoke that, I was ill-temper'd too.
And yet, methinks, I could be well content
That's not feigned; he is so.
Redeeming time when men think least I will.
After the Danish sword, and thy free awe
No, no. Come, I am for no more bawdy-houses:
Aloft the flood, and can give audience
Save that, for reverence to some alive,
And all those sayings will I overswear;
Yes.
All goodness
To make coals cheap,--a noble memory!
Alarum. Drums and trumpets. Enter AGRIPPA and others
Exit CASSIO
Nor for my manhood, honesty, or wisdom,
From whom my absence was not six months old
Whom sometime I have laugh'd with: let your highness
But what thou art besides, thou wert too base
Like to a bubbling fountain stirr'd with wind,
A king, a king!
That I will dazzle all the eyes of France,
All these could not procure me any scathe,
Virtuous and fair, royal and gracious.
Enter Citizens
Howe'er you lean to the nayward.
My sea-gown scarf'd about me, in the dark
By my life, she will do as I do.
My honour would not let ingratitude
No; he is best endued in the small.
Seeing the deed is meritorious,
That which hath made them drunk hath made me bold;
Whose ruin you have sought, that to her laws
Moor-ditch?
This arm upholds the house of Lancaster.
On him that thus doth tyrannize o'er me.
And, though we leave it with a root, thus hack'd,
To have the expense and waste of his revenues.
A leg, a limb?
Faints
I pray ye, greet them fairly.
That day that made my sister thirteen years.
If that the praised himself bring the praise forth:
If it be confessed, it is not redress'd: is not that
Your highness shall do well to grant her suit;
By guileful fair words peace may be obtain'd.
hate a drunken rogue.
Do no more offices of life to't than
Enter SOMERSET
Let us be wary, let us hide our loves;'
I will not be put out of countenance.
Care not for issue;
Which never tender lady hath born greater,
fifty hairs' quoth he, 'and one white: that white
If ever I remember to be holy,
How often hast thou waited at my cup,
Of kings, of beggars, old men, young men, maids,
Shamest thou not, knowing whence thou art extraught,
Note it not you, Thaisa?
Spare thy Athenian cradle and those kin
now is the whole man governed with one: so that if
Or any one of you, chop off your hand,
To our own vantage.
When thy first griefs were but a mere conceit,
The shadow of your sorrow hath destroy'd
Which is he that killed the deer?
Tush, thou art deceived:
no. Why? detraction will not suffer it. Therefore
come something nearer.
Take your time.
Which was declining on the milky head
And struck him on his knee: in that day's feats,
Why, because he was mad: he shall recover his wits
For that I was his father Edward's son;
Fair encounter
That any drop thou borrow'dst from thy mother,
I grieve to hear what torments you endured,
And dout them with superfluous courage, ha!
Indeed, he plied them both with excellent praises.
More guarded than his fellows': see it done.
And I did yield to him: but the next morn betimes,
As thy desires can wish.
predeceased valour and dare not avouch in your deeds
But kill'st the mother that engender'd thee!
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
Where stood Belgia, the Netherlands?
Then honour be but a goal to my will,
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, HAMLET,  POLONIUS, LAERTES, VOLTIMAND, CORNELIUS, Lords, and Attendants
there is but three skirts for yourself, in my
Call Edward king and at his hands beg mercy?
Juno have mercy! how came it cloven?
I'll follow, as they say, for reward. He that
Or, when he doom'd this beauty to a grave,
Alack, alack!
Blows you to Padua here from old Verona?
loved her: the ballad is very pitiful and as true.
Trinculo and thyself shall be viceroys. Dost thou
care of him.
Who gave thee this letter?
your present to one Master Bassanio, who, indeed,
What seest thou there? King Henry's diadem,
With other graces weigh'd.
Spurio, with his cicatrice, an emblem of war, here
Enter POMPEY, MENECRATES, and MENAS, in warlike manner
Fidele, sir.
Before her troth-plight: say't and justify't.
Enter Attendants, and BIGOT, carrying KING JOHN in a chair
O, wonder!
Monmouth caps; which, your majesty know, to this
And smoke the temple with our sacrifices.
To the Fool
You give away heaven's vows, and those are mine;
you have courage to maintain it: I am bound to call
By my troth, he'll yield the crow a pudding one of
If thou wilt weep my fortunes, take my eyes.
Be content and seek no new,
Come, come, you are well understood to be a
Well, let us see honest Master Page. Is Falstaff there?
Yes, lord, her father is a king,
And even now my burthen'd heart would break,
That young Prince Edward marries Warwick's daughter.
[Aside to MOTH]  Their eyes, villain, their eyes!
And cry 'O Clarence, my unhappy son!'
Yet he, of all the rest, I think, best loves ye.
Sits here, like beauty's child, whom nature gat
But buffets better than a fist of France:
SCENE I. Elsinore. A platform before the castle.
strange bed-fellows. I will here shroud till the
And bury all, which yet distinctly ranges,
No, sir, no jot; I know your favour well,
come; who you are and what you would are out of my
The gates of Rome. Our spoils we have brought home
Because thou hast not so much charity in thee as to
Will you speak well of him that kill'd your cousin?
If thou be as poor for a subject as he is for a
Ere a fortnight make me elder,
To unburden all my plots and purposes
These kind of knaves I know, which in this plainness
lungs, bladders full of imposthume, sciaticas,
Prithee, go in thyself: seek thine own ease:
Say, can you fast? your stomachs are too young;
He, sir.
Our corn's to reap, for yet our tithe's to sow.
But qualify the fire's extreme rage,
To smooth the ice, or add another hue
Will you prepare you for this masque tonight?
My lord,
Come, my Hippolyta: what cheer, my love?
Thou'ldst not believe thy deeds: but I'll report it
ANTIPHOLUS
That I had been forsworn. Beshrew your eyes,
Now, God save thy life!
Petruchio, shall I then come roundly to thee
Why, my boy?
By the false faith of him I trusted most;
And am not I a prelate of the church?
Please you, madam
Thou art sure to lose; and, of that natural luck,
See, by good hap, yonder's my lord;
That this our court, infected with their manners,
Whose aged honour cites a virtuous youth,
Seeking the bubble reputation
And yet your fair discourse hath been as sugar,
Although assail'd with fortune fierce and keen,
if it be nothing, I shall not need spectacles.
Fly off our loves again!
On wholesome life usurp immediately.
To have his title live in Aquitaine;
My body shall make good upon this earth,
Good cheer, Antonio! What, man, courage yet!
in the point; poor jade, is wrung in the withers out
Let what is here contain'd relish of love,
'Tis time
Please it your grace lead on?
And you all know, security
And show thee all the treasure we have got,
born to be hanged, our case is miserable.
Postures beyond brief nature, for condition,
Or, if sour woe delights in fellowship
And he did bid us follow to the temple.
hast a fine forehead.
I am not mad; too well, too well I feel
To be whipped! What's his fault?
to that nourishment which is called supper: so much
Stabb'd by the selfsame hand that made these wounds!
my cousin Slender, and this day we shall have our answer.
So, Dolabella,
God's wrong is most of all.
Was this upon myself: what I am truly,
Exit a Servant
If this division chance, ne'er stood between,
And how stand you affected to his wish?
With that recognizance and pledge of love
But repetition of what thou hast marr'd;
that should desire you to touch him, for his biting
If he be taken, he shall never more
What, is Lavinia then become so loose,
Master constable, let these men be bound, and
Good sir, no more; these are unsightly tricks:
Do, good friend.
Your silence most offends me, and to be merry best
Now, whence come you?
Out on thee, murderer! thou kill'st my heart;
The natural bravery of your isle, which stands
Make me no more ado, but all embrace him:
foolish ear.
A yielding 'gainst some reason in my breast
This forenamed maid hath yet in her the continuance
I will have my revenge ere I depart his house.
This other Eden, demi-paradise,
There shall be order for't.
Nay, I beseech you, sir, be not out with me: yet,
Stand forth, Lysander: and my gracious duke,
Of all the days i' the year, I came to't that day
May I with right and conscience make this claim?
And strangers ne'er beheld but wondered at;
'tis not good that children should know any
And in a vision full of majesty
Could never plant in me.
Her advocate to the loud'st. We do not know
I had rather crack my sinews, break my back,
And thus o'er-sized with coagulate gore,
Rare Egyptian!
tender-bodied and the only son of my womb, when
Says to 'em, if King Pericles
To keep her constancy in plight and youth,
O, my good lords, and virtuous Henry,
One that made means to come by what he hath,
Are wolvish, bloody, starved and ravenous.
I will weary you then no longer with idle talking.
Still, still, far wide!
Casca will tell us what the matter is.
Find what thou want'st by free and offer'd light. Come.
Than Bolingbroke to England. Lords, farewell.
That late thou gavest me; for Mercutio's soul
I do confess much of the hearing it but little of
excellent news of your husband.
Be you constant in the accusation, and my cunning
Mine own, and not mine own.
For which I must not plead, but that I am
To Bona, sister to the King of France.
To Persia, and want guilders for my voyage:
What, what, what? let's partake.
I know this act shows horrible and grim.
The warlike feats I have done, his spirits fly out
That tempers him to this extremity.
Most mighty Caesar, let me know some cause,
dish of stewed prunes; and, by my troth, I cannot
You may;
Well, better wits have worn plain statute-caps.
SCENE I. The moated grange at ST. LUKE's.
What is infirm from your sound parts shall fly,
Which so roused up with boisterous untuned drums,
Direness, familiar to my slaughterous thoughts
York set him on to fight and die in shame,
Young Adam Cupid, he that shot so trim,
Whom we, to gain our peace, have sent to peace,
Go you to Juliet ere you go to bed,
From his ambitious finger. What had he
Proclaim him in the streets; incense her kinsmen,
Signior, it is the Moor.
Go hie thee presently, post to the road:
He durst not sit there, had your father lived.
Thou speakest wiser than thou art ware of.
never think to marry: I must not seem proud: happy
Nor was not to be equall'd;'--thus your verse
Speak, old AEgeon, if thou be'st the man
And kiss him with a glorious victory.
enow before; e'en as many as could well live, one by
And in this kind hath our Cleon
here lies the point:  if I drown myself wittingly,
The worst that man can breathe, and make his wrongs
Are joyfully return'd.
For it doth physic love: of his content,
Lift up thy brow, renowned Salisbury,
Thou camest--
Kind Rome, that hast thus lovingly reserved
Anon comes one with light to ope the tomb;
Her only fault, and that is faults enough,
A prologue arm'd, but not in confidence
It would not out at windows nor at doors.
Ay, or else I would I might be hanged, la!
For you a mortal mineral; which, being took,
I crave your blessing.
O god of love! I know he doth deserve
So in the earth, to this day is not known:
It is a recreation to be by
Who from my cabin tempted me to walk
More than his reason. But 'tis a common proof,
I'll go along, no such sight to be shown,
o'clock in the afternoon.
Falstaffs, he shall not abuse Robert Shallow, esquire.
Art thou certain this is true? is it most certain?
There is example for't; the lady of the Strachy
Both alike:
--and he is a knave besides; a cowardly knave as you
DON
unto thee: knock, I say.
Religion to the gods, peace, justice, truth,
Wilt thou be lord of the whole world? That's twice.
A birth, and death?
May do much danger. Friar John, go hence;
Though twenty thousand worthier come to crave her.
Our comfort in the country. We must find
We are busy; go.
My mistress, dearest;
Of pale distemperatures and foes to life?
For making me, so young, so old a widow!
All poverty was scorn'd, and pride so great,
So stumblest on my counsel?
And brother-love I do it.
Their clothes are after such a pagan cut too,
But I'll amerce you with so strong a fine
Lest in this marriage he should be dishonour'd,
Accept distracted thanks.
Why, any thing:
My treasure's in the harbour, take it. O,
pret; car ce soldat ici est dispose tout a cette
Ah, my Lavinia, I will wipe thy cheeks.
warlike resistance.
I'll prat her.
and the old ornament of his cheek hath already
Exeunt
Enter JULIA and LUCETTA
capricious poet, honest Ovid, was among the Goths.
Myself.
Even so.
It is reported that he has taken their greatest
Have been mine so that evermore they pointed
Of burning Rome.
Cuckoo, cuckoo: O word of fear,
Enter CLEOMENES and DION
My lord, my lord, you are a sectary,
Wrong right, base noble, old young, coward valiant.
Good time of day unto my gracious lord!
certainty to be the king's daughter. Did you see
you.
Nay, Cadwal, we must lay his head to the east;
We will go walk a little in the orchard,
Alack, sir, he is mad.
Now hazarded to thy grace.
Urge me no more, I shall forget myself;
[Aside]  How like a dream is this I see and hear!
Who seeks, and will not take when once 'tis offer'd,
Their chiefest prospect murdering basilisks!
You lie.
This sudden execution of my will.
With tears as sovereign as the blood of hearts,
And you, my gentle knight, give me your thoughts:
And make a quagmire of your mingled brains.
her;' and where some stretch-mouthed rascal would,
I may so.
My lord?
The country, our dear nurse, or else thy person,
him to his country for justice: grant it me, O
till I do come to London, where we will have the
By reason of his adversary's odds:
Do not you know my lady's foot by the squier,
And, as it were far off sound thou Lord Hastings,
He descends. She ariseth
Put finger in the eye, an she knew why.
Re-enter HERMIA
Exeunt
Other offenders we will pause upon.
Say you can swim; alas, 'tis but a while!
And I'll be chief to bring him down again:
cannot be denied what I have done by land.
have strong arms too.
The eleventh of this month at Shrewsbury
In bloody field,
Fie, what a question's that,
Thorough bush, thorough brier,
Noting this penury, to myself I said
But yet a brain that leads my use of anger
I cannot find those runagates; that villain
Brave Burgundy, undoubted hope of France!
To see inherited my very wishes
But all the whole inheritance I give
The DUKE and Senators sitting at a table; Officers attending
But in our orbs we'll live so round and safe,
May it please you, madam, that he bid Helen come to
Pray thee, sweet Mistress Margaret, deserve well at
It was for Malcolm and for Donalbain
Can never be so equal, that your love
Let us not leave till all our own be won.
You must, if you stay here; for here is the place
His resemblance, being not like the duke;
What you will have it named, even that it is;
Of one or both of us the time is come.
I crave the benefit of law of arms.
I'll go and chat with Paris: hie, make haste,
I have told my lord of you; he is coming down to you.
As Anna to the queen of Carthage was,
Now, lords, for France; the enterprise whereof
No? when Nature hath made a fair creature, may she
To-morrow shall you bear our full intent
Will you be ready? do you like this haste?
know how she should be worthy, is the opinion that
proportion the losses we have borne, the subjects we
Semblably furnish'd like the king himself.
Lord Clifford and Lord Stafford, all abreast,
Have done me shame: brave soldier, pardon me,
Be worthily entertain'd.
Pray you, be gone:
Take thou the fee, and tell him what I say;
I was not born a yielder, thou proud Scot;
Of his bright passage to the occident.
Give me some present counsel, or, behold,
Hadst thou beheld--
Why suffer'st thou thy sons, unburied yet,
Did not the one deserve to have an heir?
Into your own hands, cardinal, by extortion;
I, that denied thee gold, will give my heart:
My Lord of Warwick, here is--praised be God for it!
Let him perceive how ill we brook his treason
Another fall of man. Their faults are open:
Thou divine Nature, how thyself thou blazon'st
Than you much willing to be counted wise
I may be consul.
For in thy shoulder do I build my seat,
At Antium.
No, boy.
desire more?
Come, I'll conduct you to the sanctuary.
Have suffer'd wrong, go keep us company,
Enter Chorus
thou wouldst sin the faster. Thou givest so long,
Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
Hit with Cupid's archery,
Thou hast her, France: let her be thine; for we
I charge thee, be not thou more grieved than I am.
Very ready, sir.
His honour and the greatness of his name
I hope this reason stands for my excuse.
We make thee lady: to thine and Albany's issue
Was pitied of Macbeth: marry, he was dead:
of herself is a good lady and would not have knaves
When thou didst make him master of thy bed,
ANTIPHOLUS
I would I were a weaver; I could sing psalms or any
I'ld have you buy and sell so, so give alms,
I be not found a talker.
Enter BRUTUS, DARDANIUS, CLITUS, STRATO, and VOLUMNIUS
Against the French, that met them in their bent,
you will take it on you to assist him, it shall
To start my quiet.
And though he were unsatisfied in getting,
I marvel why her grace did leave it out.
Exeunt
With bills on their necks, 'Be it known unto all men
virgin crimson of modesty, if she deny the
If thou hadst been Dromio to-day in my place,
That which my daughter came to look upon,
Betwixt us as the cement of our love,
You are not worth the dust which the rude wind
Is the immediate jewel of their souls:
Come thy ways, Signior Fabian.
After long seeming dead, Iago hurt him,
I must prevent thee, Cimber.
To keep mine honour from corruption,
Whose nature sickens but to speak a truth.
When it appears to you where this begins,
Sings
And I, my lord, will bear him company.
Thy paleness moves me more than eloquence;
Dear, look up:
Here dwells my father Jew. Ho! who's within?
Which sixteen winters cannot blow away,
old time, which we may name tough.
pikes with a vice; and they are dangerous weapons for maids.
A crown it is that seldom kings enjoy.
A knack, a toy, a trick, a baby's cap:
I thank thee for that gird, good Tranio.
To have her gentleman abused, assaulted,
An turn our impress'd lances in our eyes
No, good swabber; I am to hull here a little
Blow me into abhorring! rather make
Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
What rubbish and what offal, when it serves
How grounded he his title to the crown,
Which very manners urges.
O, from Italy
loves, and, I am proud, say, that my occasions have
shalt be!' This have I thought good to deliver
Most like: it harrows me with fear and wonder.
O foolish Cressid! I might have still held off,
The snake lies rolled in the cheerful sun,
Here if thou stay, thou canst not see thy love;
The penitent instrument to pick that bolt,
God bless your grace! we see it, and will say it.
Two mightier troops than that the Dauphin led,
She is your treasure, she must have a husband;
O Lord, sir! spare not me.
Exeunt Pandar and Pirates
As liking of the lady's virtuous gifts,
Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone round
Not in deed, madam; for I can do nothing
Nothing concerning me.
How meanest thou? brawling in French?
I and my sword will earn our chronicle:
A golden mind stoops not to shows of dross;
your knees and make ready.
Her wagoner a small grey-coated gnat,
Exeunt DEMETRIUS and CHIRON
Syenna's brother.
In such a night
Well, sir, in brief, the gown is not for me.
With shears his thread of silk.
favourably minister.
Thy mother was a piece of virtue, and
What would they, say they?
If it be so, as so 'tis put on me,
Was not devised for the realm of France:
Two kinsmen digg'd their graves with weeping eyes.
Past the mid season.
In argument and proof of which contract,
As we have, such. This gallant which thou seest
These eyes, that see thee now well coloured,
Constrains them weep and shake with fear and sorrow;
The upper Germany, can dearly witness,
fair. The assault that Angelo hath made to you,
If it prove
Being nothing like the noble duke my father:
Is the desire that's glorious: blest be those,
This looks not like a nuptial.
Exit
In their fair cheeks, my lord; then we shall have 'em
And princes not doin g so are like to gnats,
Let never day nor night unhallow'd pass,
From all such devils, good Lord deliver us!
I will hear Cassius; and compare their reasons,
Exit
Kills himself
Is not more smooth and rubious; thy small pipe
Not so sick, my lord,
For such a wish! he was not born to shame:
Now are our brows bound with victorious wreaths;
mortality, and desperately mortal.
Help, ye citizens!
In such disdainful manner me to woo.
Ay, Proteus, but that life is alter'd now:
My ingenious instrument!
Or else the lady's mad; yet, if 'twere so,
To DUKE SENIOR
Indeed!
Will modestly discover to yourself
No, I'll come no more i' the basket. May I not go
I can go home alone.
For this amongst the rest, was I ordain'd.
Thou art thyself, though not a Montague.
Have notice what we purpose. I shall break
Of a cut loaf to steal a shive, we know:
Almost no grave allow'd me: like the lily,
Exeunt all but CARDINAL WOLSEY
Mistress Ford, and requests your company.
Bestow this place on us a little while.
There shall he practise tilts and tournaments,
himself! Well, the gods are above; time must friend
And by the buried hand of warlike Gaunt,
How now, sweetheart! who's at home besides yourself?
So York may overlook the town of York.
I must inform you of a dismal fight
No, this thrice worthy and right valiant lord
Your accent is something finer than you could
SCENE IV. The same. KING PHILIP'S tent.
And whatsoever else shall hap to-night,
And by herself, I will not tell you whose.
O paradox! Black is the badge of hell,
[Within]  Who calls?
I'll send them all as willing as I live:
I love thee; I have spoke it
well cut,' he would say I lied: this is called the
If Henry were recall'd to life again,
9. The old Duchess of Norfolk, in a coronal of
It is writ to Jaquenetta.
I dare make his answer, none.
you to take leave of her, she is very willing to bid
What, marry, may she! marry with a king,
harpy. You have no employment for me?
That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
And send him many years of sunshine days!
measure in strength. If I could win a lady at
At Chertsey monastery this noble king,
Let villany itself forswear't. I must
Post you to London, and you will find it so;
standing pool; who is whipped from tithing to
stolen. Well, you are to call at all the
as if you would drive me into a toil?
FALSTAFF hides himself
God give thee joy of him! the noble lord
As will not leave their tinct.
Dies
Who would believe that there were mountaineers
That is the cause we trouble you so early;
The unyoked humour of your idleness:
Whom stripes may move, not kindness! I have used thee,
Prepare, madam, prepare!
We will entice the Duke of Burgundy
Why, any thing, but to the purpose. You were sent
'For I must bear thee to a trusty Goth;
Opens the letter and reads
Hear me, queen:
now.
They have au denied him.
And that well might
hearts, what ado here is to bring you together!
I gave it freely ever; and there's none
Fear not our care, sir.
Subject his coronet to his crown and bend
Dear almost as his life; which gratitude
His leg is but so so; and yet 'tis well:
Enough, enough, my lord; you have enough:
Encounter such revolt.
A trembling upon Rome, such as was never
'Twill weep for having wearied you. My father
If a bloody coxcomb be a hurt, you have hurt me: I
had rather have it a head: an you use these blows
Enter VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA, and VALERIA
I think I did, sir; I deny it not.
Exeunt
The thought of them would have stirr'd up remorse:
And see a fearful sight of blood and death.
Which may, if fortune please, both breed thee, pretty,
But to those men that sought him sweet as summer.
have served you thus?
Forsooth, I have forgot.
On blossoming Caesar; and this pine is bark'd,
Exit CLARENCE, and SOMERSET follows
[Within]  Open the door, secure, foolhardy king:
I snatch'd one half out of the jaws of death,
What have you done? Behold, the heavens do ope,
As for my patron, stand you so assured,
For Pyramus therein doth kill himself.
Is now in durance, at Malvolio's suit,
O' the floor;
Get him to say his prayers, good Sir Toby, get him to pray.
A sail, a sail!
When I was wont to think no harm all night
From forth this morsel of dead royalty,
And I shall lose my life for want of language;
my intelligence is true; my jealousy is reasonable.
Why, all these should be in the lanthorn; for all
That, in this case of justice, my accusers,
Horns winded. Enter a Lord from hunting, with his train
And guardian of their bones.
Being nimble-footed, he hath outrun us,
to give her, but have given largely to many to know
Troilus, I say! where's Troilus?
Yet, since love's argument was first on foot,
adventurously. I must stay with the lackeys, with
Antonio never yet was thief or pirate,
You cannot, if my heart were in your hand;
Our duties did his welcome pay.
The anger'd ocean foams; with which I meant
like those that under hot ardent zeal would set
I will not, till I please: you shall hear me. My
Antonio is a good man.
Nay, good lieutenant,--alas, gentlemen;--
from Don Armado: I beseech you, read it.
Set in a note-book, learn'd, and conn'd by rote,
I am too bold, 'tis not to me she speaks:
Should be so tyrannous and rough in proof!
With stronger blood, we should have answer'd heaven
occupation; have at it with you.
And to his honour and his valiant parts
None at all.
Nay, then, give him another staff: this last was
Feast with the best, and welcome to my house:
age to show himself a young gallant! What an
gallant service.
But to our honour's great disparagement,
A great-sized monster of ingratitudes:
No less! nay, bigger; women grow by men.
Thou counterfeit'st a bark, a sea, a wind;
He has almost supp'd: why have you left the chamber?
Nor construe any further my neglect,
For beauty lives with kindness.
But, out, alas! here have we found him dead.
Holding thine ear close to the hollow ground;
My liege, one word.
Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
Good worts! good cabbage. Slender, I broke your
Send thy brass voice through all these lazy tents;
I swear to thee, youth, by the white hand of
And leave thee to the mercy of wild beasts.
By bud of nobler race: this is an art
That I this day of him received the chain,
The monstrous bulk of this ingratitude
We'll have thee, as our rarer monsters are,
Is come into the field.
That hast this fortune on me? If thou'rt noble,
Come, coz; come, coz; we stay for you. A word with
By you being pardon'd, we commit no crime
You have done wrong to this my honest friend,
miscarried, my creditors grow cruel, my estate is
Away, then, with good courage! yet, I know,
Mine honour, it. Repent that e'er thy tongue
I fear it much; and I do fear besides,
Ah. mocker! that's the dog's name; R is for
gives thee better counsel, give me mine again: I
On some great sudden hest. O, what portents are these?
God send her quickly!
For all this spice of your hypocrisy:
Enter the Ghost of CAESAR
But, sure, he is stark mad.
Hector, Deiphobus, Helenus, Antenor, and all the
I shall deliver so. Thanks to your highness.
And rather comfort his distressed plight
he is a very valiant trencherman; he hath an
By sea! what else?
Look not upon me, for thine eyes are wounding:
And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
With fear and horrid flight.
Nay, if Cupid have not spent all his quiver in
Cowards father cowards and base things sire base:
Since therein she doth evitate and shun
That the earth owes. I hear it now above me.
Is Clarence, Henry, and his son young Edward,
As blameful as the executioner?
With dead men hurt behind, and cowards living
And from this fellow? if we live thus tamely,
This wretch hath part confess'd his villany:
As chaste as unsunn'd snow. O, all the devils!
Let me confirm my princely brother's greeting:
day into the compassed window,--and, you know, he
BISHOP
In quarter, and in terms like bride and groom
ay?
Courageous Richmond, well hast thou acquit thee.
How now! what news?
dearer love.
Seven hundred pounds and possibilities is goot gifts.
[Reads]
Seek not my name: a plague consume you wicked
Well then, your bond; and let me see; but hear you;
In a long motley coat guarded with yellow,
Of my condition!
All by the name of dogs: the valued file
I live unstain'd, thou undishonoured.
With words of sovereignty.
A thousand pounds a year for pure respect!
stealing; Modo, of murder; Flibbertigibbet, of
Therefore, merchant, I'll limit thee this day
May cement their divisions and bind up
The tucket sonance and the note to mount;
Enter DESDEMONA, IAGO, and Attendants
We cannot take this for answer, sir.
I am thy friend, and pity thee, dear Timon.
For interim to our studies shall relate
Exit
Where there was no proportion held in love.
To entertain great England's lawful king.
Where France?
I cannot do't without counters. Let me see; what am
O that you could!
In music, instruments and poetry,
unweighed behavior hath this Flemish drunkard
Thus high at least, although your knee be low.
Enter ALCIBIADES, with the rest
And I will break with her and with her father,
And common profit of his country!
had the maidenliest star in the firmament
Let him bless thee too.
To ORLANDO
And, commendable proved, let's die in pride.
But stop their mouths with stubborn bits, and spur 'em,
him again? Answer me in one word.
so they shall be both bestowed. I have suffered more
see the light of our fairies. Remember, son Slender,
of the chamber. How many masters would do this for
metal to make virgins. Virginity by being once lost
He doth intend she shall be England's queen.
Be not found here; hence, with your little ones.
While it doth study to have what it would
somebody had heard her talk yesterday, as I did. I
Must sanctify his reliques. Who comes here?
And not for justice? What, shall one of us
And what thou think'st his very action speaks
And whereso'er this foot of mine doth tread,
Giving it to KATHARINE
the rod, and put'st down thine own breeches,
If drink rock not his cradle.
using painting, do prove my occupation a mystery:
Then have at you with my wit! I will dry-beat you
And write in thee the figures of their love,
Who taught you this?
O, look upon me, sir,
Edmund Mortimer, My lord of York and Owen Glendower?
Take thou what course thou wilt!
A kinder gentleman treads not the earth.
Thoughts tending to content flatter themselves
ran away upon instinct, you will not touch the true
Tucket, within
Thou hadst, great king, a subject who
Lack blood to think on't, and flush youth revolt:
such a case as mine a man may strain courtesy.
Into the flame.
No, Caesar shall not: danger knows full well
Run to my Lord of Suffolk; let him know
Of a beloved daughter and a wife.
companion now? He hath every month a new sworn brother.
The night has been unruly: where we lay,
To take her with him to the Isle of Man.
Nor change my countenance for this arrest:
Keep then this passage to the Capitol
Give me thy hand.
May turn by fortune from the weaker hand:
His woeful queen we leave at Ephesus,
thy lower part where thy nose stands. By mine
To the winds whose pity, sighing back again,
love to take thy father for mine: so wouldst thou,
Yes, indeed, was I.
You do yourselves but wrong to stir me up;
The plain-song cuckoo gray,
As in a soul remembering my good friends;
youth will aptly receive it, into a most hideous
A retreat sounded
My soul is heavy, and I fain would sleep.
That shall be by and by: I remember the story.
Have done, for more I hardly can endure.
have her first.' Such a maidenhead were no cheap
The daughter of a king, my drops of tears
Do meet, as at a fair, in her fair cheek,
Thus, then, in few.
Stood Dido with a willow in her hand
and a knave; which not-withstanding, thou shalt be
Woe, that too late repents,--
When wit's more ripe, accept my rhymes.
It is but needful:
Holy, fair and wise is she;
With all the learned council of the realm,
Who lies i' the second chamber?
through the realm.
To sit with us once more, with better heed
Would here have kill'd your king; I do forgive thee,
Preserver of my father, now of me,
And when she is froward, peevish, sullen, sour,
We see each grain of gravel, I do know
His blows are well disposed: there, Ajax!
Alarum. Excursions. Enter WARWICK
Why, fool?
Ye lie, hostess: Bardolph was shaved and lost many
I mean, his conversation with Shore's wife,
She loved not the savour of tar nor of pitch,
For these domestic and particular broils
Sent by the heavens for Prince Saturnine,
What wouldst thou have to Athens?
asked them once or twice what they had in their
By Isis, I will give thee bloody teeth,
Were better than a churlish turf of France.
ANTIPHOLUS
What Eve, what serpent, hath suggested thee
Those that Macbeth hath slain.
All that served Brutus, I will entertain them.
Heard you of nothing strange about the streets?
So much besmear it. Pardon me, good lady;
what's the matter?
Stay till I have read the letter.
And, with his head over his shoulder turn'd,
And pardon absolute for yourself and these
I'll make my will then, and, as sick men do
As heaven shall work in me for thine avail,
That did oppose my will: better Macbeth
Unless for that, my liege, I cannot guess.
KENT is put in the stocks
I will not hold thee long: if I do live,
Which fault lies on the hazards of all husbands
Not know me yet?
That's hereby.
Richer than doing nothing for a bauble,
And tell her she is thine: to whom I promise
No care, no stop! so senseless of expense,
ANTIPHOLUS
Re-enter Citizens
prospect of my hopes. Well, Jove, not I, is the
Nor how to be contented with one wife,
By urging me to fury: O, be gone!
From Perigenia, whom he ravished?
What make you from home?
For the flowers now, that frighted thou let'st fall
Lead me to the revolts of England here.
Cropp'd are the flower-de-luces in your arms;
Honour'd with confirmation your great judgment
To raise a spirit in his mistress' circle
Are these, I pray you, wind-instruments?
ACT II
We will bestow you in some better place,
Enter ROSALIND, CELIA, and JAQUES
himself, for he does neither affect company, nor is
Yet camest thou to a morsel of this feast,
Here, noble lord: what is thy will with her?
Give me a taper! call up all my people!
Wear both of them, for both of them are thine.
But, poor old man, thou prunest a rotten tree,
In the base court? Base court, where kings grow base,
Enter in state, CYMBELINE, QUEEN, CLOTEN,  and Lords at one door, and at another, CAIUS LUCIUS and Attendants
Salisbury, cheer thy spirit with this comfort;
from thicket;
Sleeping or waking must I still prevail,
And I, delivering you, am satisfied
O'ercharging your free purses with large fines,
ACT III
Which heaven hath forbid the Ottomites?
Let it no more bring out ingrateful man!
A maid, and stuffed! there's goodly catching of cold.
I would your highness would depart the field:
If case some one of you would fly from us,
If this right hand would buy two hour's life,
What wound did ever heal but by degrees?
or it is upon a file with the duke's other letters
his death is enrolled in the Capitol; his glory not
overmastered with a pierce of valiant dust? to make
Exeunt
Like a good parent, did beget of him
Not one word more of the consumed time.
Sir, I commend you to your own content.
Call you me fair? that fair again unsay.
Pyramus draws near the wall: silence!
I would attach you all and make you stoop
Whether hadst thou rather be a Faulconbridge
What, of Venice?
has got that same scurvy doting foolish young knave's
The mortal bugs o' the field.
Exit, guarded
With other gentlemen of good esteem,
And gives the crutch the cradle's infancy:
And banish hence these abject lowly dreams.
By his loved mansionry, that the heaven's breath
gabble enough, and good enough. As for you,
Why lament you, pretty one?
Nay, nay, Octavia, not only that,--
If he had been as you and you as he,
More than was ever man's, I would not prize them
But only she; and she deserves a lord
It would be spoke to.
Exit Guardsman
Sweet father, do so; set it on your head.
No wonder, my lord: one lion may, when many asses do.
So long as we can say  'This is the worst.'
No, no; and therefore we'll have his head.
Exit
Burthen [dispersedly, within
'Aroint thee, witch!' the rump-fed ronyon cries.
observed: and we are strong in custom. Therefore
Dobbin my fill-horse has on his tail.
thine eyes so red: thou must be patient. I am fain
Enter Poet and Painter; TIMON watching them from his cave
To execute the like upon thyself;
To feast so great a warrior in my house.
Five tribunes to defend their vulgar wisdoms,
If such a one will smile and stroke his beard,
For this popp'd Paris in his hardiment,
Therefore away, to get our stuff aboard.
Reads
Fools on both sides! Helen must needs be fair,
O, my heart!
Of his fair mistress: in the afternoon
That you are welcome?
When he shall hear she died upon his words,
'Tis not his fault, the spark.
Never sound more! when drums and trumpets shall
Have letters from me to some friends that will
Do what you can, yours will not be entreated.
Wept like two children in their deaths' sad stories.
Have we done aught amiss,--show us wherein,
Luxurious, avaricious, false, deceitful,
By moonshine did these lovers think no scorn
turned into a maid; for they are all girdled with
As words to little purpose.
No more o' that;
Still ending at the arrival of an hour.
heart cannot come by her; in heart you love her,
Writing
O, calm thee, gentle lord; although I know
a great man, I'll warrant; I know by the picking
Danish march. A flourish. Enter KING CLAUDIUS,  QUEEN GERTRUDE, POLONIUS, OPHELIA, ROSENCRANTZ, GUILDENSTERN, and others
But mark'd him not a word. O, he is as tedious
The king, that calls your beauteous daughter wife.
When honour's at the stake. How stand I then,
Now will I hence about thy business,
As begging hermits in their holy prayers:
Thy two sons forth; who, by Belarius stol'n,
Exeunt CORIOLANUS, COMINIUS, and others
The more accursed thou, that still omitt'st it.
Florence, of a most chaste renown; and this night he
Would you not have me honest?
Defiance, traitors, hurl we in your teeth:
penitent, as thou callest him, and reconciled king,
Fortune sent in this fool to cut off the argument?
As to the legitimate: fine word,--legitimate!
followers, for it appears by their bare liveries,
daughter with clipping her; now he thanks the old
If it be love indeed, tell me how much.
Would quite confound distinction, yet stand off
Fare you well, my lord.
Let them not live to taste this land's increase
Exeunt
And bid me stand aloof, and so I did:
With ears that sweep away the morning dew;
He was a thing of blood, whose every motion
Without delay; and the pretence for this
They say, my lords, 'ira furor brevis est;' but yond
Then, as you are as virtuous as fair,
such dispositions as he bears, this last
To find out this abuse, whence 'tis derived.
for an ass.
Being loose, unfirm, with digging up of graves,
That dogs bark at me as I halt by them;
Exeunt
Popp'd in between the election and my hopes,
I have delivered it an hour since: there is
A nobleness in record: but I will be
her than she'll demand.
Hear'st thou, Mars?
They call'd us for our fierceness English dogs;
Following darkness like a dream,
For she was born at sea, I have named so, here
My best beloved and approved friend,
Get you hence instantly, and tell those friends,
And hardly kept our countrymen together,
Have lost a brace of kinsmen: all are punish'd.
Ay, sir; we are some of her trappings.
Go, one of you, find out the forester;
Love loving not itself none other can.
Heigh-ho! sing,  and c.
What fellow's this?
I'll leave you, my sweet lady, for a while:
three ages since: but I think now 'tis not to be
Let me stand here till thou remember it.
Nor are you therein, by my life, deceived,
I call them forth to credit her.
To make Judas hang himself.
Where got'st thou that goose look?
nettles, or sow lettuce, set hyssop and weed up
Trembling even at the name of Mortimer.
Enter Banditti
I would bend under any heavy weight
And peg thee in his knotty entrails till
young days. Why, I am going with my pigeons to the
Is, that by sudden floods and fall of waters,
Or so much as it needs,
Knows he the wickedness?
Exeunt severally
Look, on the sheets his hair you see, is sticking;
Under thy own life's key: be cheque'd for silence,
Are to the world in general as to Caesar.
My husband!
'Tis much. Servants, leave me and her alone.
Lament till I am lost.
God save the king! although I be not he;
Hold, sir, for God's sake! now your jest is earnest:
Live each of you the subjects to his hate,
Have brought about the annual reckoning.
And 'tailor' cries, and falls into a cough;
so doth the hound his master, the ape his keeper,
And to revenge thine eyes. Come hither, friend:
There is a law in each well-order'd nation
As low as to the fiends!'
And, to add greater honours to his age
Oh, he is young and his minority
What shall we do, Enobarbus?
I should have been a sore one then.
that puts the world into her person and so gives me
To pay him tribute, submit thyself,
Which yet seem shut, we, have but pinn'd with rushes;
Which held three dearly as his soul's redemption,
That you do charge men with. Stand no more off,
And with Demetrius thought to have spoke thereof;
To EDGAR
They never do beget a coal-black calf.
It is that fery person for all the orld, as just as
the knight is not here; now he shall see his own foolery.
I, having been acquainted with the smell before,
It came even from the heart of--O, she's dead!
Than those that walk and wot not what they are.
Exit
You spotted snakes with double tongue,
But in ourselves, that we are underlings.
Verona shall not hold thee. Here she stands;
As I wish you were.
But let my trial be mine own confession:
To make it wander in an unknown field?
As one unworthy all the former favours
Care is no cure, but rather corrosive,
Base men, that use them to so base effect!
another, his wife another; and, I think, there's one
God give him joy!
Alack, why thus?
there is shrewd construction made of her. Now, Sir
The cuckoo then, on every tree,
In any proportion or in any language.
And mock'd the dead bones that lay scatter'd by.
Offer their own lives in their young's defence?
And mark my greeting well; for what I speak
Whose mother was her painting, hath betray'd him:
Death, that hath ta'en her hence to make me wail,
nights: your cousin, my lady, takes great
How say you, my lord? are you not content?
Tend me to-night;
And would be glad he met with some mischance,
Give my sweet Nan this ring: there's for thy pains.
I would cure you, if you would but call me Rosalind
Took stand for idle speculation:
One that, in all obedience, makes the church
That I did amplify my judgment in
We grant thou canst outscold us: fare thee well;
I'll go no more:
To part the glories of this happy day.
Some innocents 'scape not the thunderbolt.
not strange that sheeps' guts should hale souls out
Long after this, when Henry the Fifth,
Sweet royalty, bestow on me the sense of hearing.
And ask of Cymbeline what boon thou wilt,
Such neighbour nearness to our sacred blood
A mere anatomy, a mountebank,
Unless her prayers, whom heaven delights to hear
If this will not suffice, it must appear
Yet throw such changes of vexation on't,
Which hurts, and is desired. Dost thou lie still?
That he would wed me, or else die my lover.
But the word 'maid,' cheats the poor maid of that,
Was this the idol that you worship so?
You'll cry for this, minion, if I beat the door down.
With wisdom I might fear, my Doricles,
This jewel holds his building on my arm:
And would have reft the fishers of their prey,
tush, man, mortal men, mortal men.
With his free duty recommends you thus,
As infinite as imminent! but I'll be true.
Will my lord say so?
To search you out.
And yet so fast asleep.
And like her most whose merit most shall be:
Enter Constable, ORLEANS, BOURBON, DAUPHIN, and RAMBURES
Remember it and let it make thee crest-fall'n,
And loose your voice: what wouldst thou beg, Laertes,
EPILOGUE
To REGAN and GONERIL
Tell me, you heavens, in which part of his body
Villain, I'll make thee safe.
Enter LAUNCE, leading a dog
On a day--alack the day!--
true: my name is Nym and Falstaff loves your wife.
Why, what a ruthless thing is this in him, for the
more said? he is good and fair. Is Sir John
'Fore God, his grace is bold, to trust these traitors.
Of these events at full. Let us go in;
till now: two thousand ducats in that; and other
they would have drowned a blind bitch's puppies,
And golden Phoebus never be beheld
Go, hop me over every kennel home,
Enter LADY CAPULET and Nurse
Peace, foolish woman.
Tongue far from heart--play with all virgins so:
The second, silver, which this promise carries,
Most sure, the goddess
and wasteful learning, the other knowing no burden
With their refusal, both observe and answer
Let her not hurt me: I was never curst;
To ANTONIO
Lucius, Lucullus, and Sempronius:
No, no; you shall have it for bearing the letter.
The seas wax'd calm, and we discovered
Than pity to our prayers. Down: an end;
course; where, if you violently proceed against
I say lead is slow.
Think you not that the powers we bear with us
Not this, but troubles of the marriage-bed.
Unblinding him
O me! my uncle's spirit is in these stones:
my sword like a great pin, ere thou and I part.
Let it be so. Sir John,
Which in a napkin being close convey'd
Enter GADSHILL, BARDOLPH and PETO
I have one friend alive; thou wouldst disprove me.
He set up his bills here in Messina and challenged
An't like your lordly lord-protectorship.
Imagine 'twere the right Vincentio.
And pass my daughter a sufficient dower,
I have seen the day, with my good biting falchion
rapier, as I may, in fair terms: if you would walk
Fear none of this: I think you know my fortunes
Why not, my lord? If then they chanced to slack you,
Hold thou my sword-hilts, whilst I run on it.
The pride of kingly sway from out my heart;
Thy life-blood out: if Aaron now be wise,
For, till thou speak, thou shalt not pass from hence.
That we with smoking swords may march from hence,
With musics of all sorts and songs composed
In evils to top Macbeth.
Thou speak'st truth.
Oui; mette le au mon pocket: depeche, quickly. Vere
Or aught intend'st to lay unto my charge,
Even those you were wont to take delight in, the
I put you o'er to heaven and to my mother:
Enter COUNTESS and Steward
There are things in this comedy of Pyramus and
Knowing all measures, the full Caesar will
As little joy may you suppose in me.
We know not where you left him all alive;
Gross fools as he,
lay aside the thoughts of Sicilia.
And morsels unctuous, greases his pure mind,
And stay thy lady too that lives in thee,
And open this to Pericles. I do shame
In Fulvia's death, how mine received shall be.
for my life.
She shall go with him: her mother hath intended,
I gave him gentle looks, thereby to find
Discover you abroad?
Die neither mother, wife, nor England's queen!
Hence comes it that your kindred shuns your house,
Are merely shadows to the unseen grief
Fortune and Antony part here; even here
Time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
The parts that fortune hath bestow'd upon her,
teeth and sing. I know a man that had this trick of
My very noble and approved good masters,
Which labour'd after him to the mountain's top
To do't. Examples gross as earth exhort me:
Approaching near these eyes, would drink my tears
Where shall I find you?
I found not Cassio's kisses on her lips:
That now hath seized them; why, they were no worse
Lucentio's father is arrived in Padua,
So good a lady that no tongue could ever
That makes thee stare thus? Wherefore breaks that sigh
And yet the king not privy to my drift,
The flesh?
Hath had no notice of these accidents;
That dare leave two together; fare you well.
As thou dost, Antony; he hears no music;
league between my good man and he! Is your wife at
Enter AGAMEMNON, AJAX, MENELAUS, NESTOR, DIOMEDES, and others, marching. Shouts within
Sir, to your pleasure humbly I subscribe:
I should think my honesty ranker than my wit.
The poet's eye, in fine frenzy rolling,
I do remember.
Thou hast no husband yet nor I no wife.
Monday! ha, ha! Well, Wednesday is too soon,
dissensions, and, I warrant you, it is the better for you.
High commendation, true applause and love,
I'll frame convenient peace. Now, good Aufidius,
I have a letter from Monsieur Biron to one Lady Rosaline.
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, GALLUS, PROCULEIUS, MECAENAS, SELEUCUS, and others of his Train
Petruchio is my name; Antonio's son,
Be my last breathing in this mortal world!
See, noble Charles, the beacon of our friend;
For a light wife doth make a heavy husband,
Enter MARK ANTONY and VENTIDIUS
liberal-conceited carriages; that's the French bet
When I have found it. The count he wooes your daughter,
By the Lord, I knew ye as well as he that made ye.
And neither by treason nor hostility
And for I know she taketh most delight
If Marcius should be join'd with Volscians,--
Upon whose leaves are drops of new-shed blood
'Tis well you offer it behind her back;
Go to: where lodges he?
E'en as the o'erflowing Nilus presageth famine.
likelihood than to see me at her chamber-window,
She hath herself not only well defended
A greater gift than that I'll give my cousin.
Madam, you wrong the king's love with these fears:
Within the belt of rule.
Under Captain Gower, my liege.
How much unlike my hopes and my deservings!
I pray thee, let us go and find him out
Together; to consider further that
ACT IV
Be barr'd his entrance here.
To whose hands have you sent the lunatic king? Speak.
O, pardon me, thou bleeding piece of earth,
Re-enter Boatswain
doth my simple feature content you?
I will go tell him of fair Hermia's flight:
What with a torch! muffle me, night, awhile.
I cannot bid you bid my daughter live;
Edward the Third, my lords, had seven sons:
Thy grandfather, Roger Mortimer, Earl of March:
Dost thou forget
He hath been in unusual pleasure, and
Adjudged an olive branch and laurel crown,
Relent, and save your souls.
They shall have none, I swear, but these my joints;
Once more, the more to aggravate the note,
do these men play?
If non to bless us and the land withal,
Thy purpose marriage, send me word to-morrow,
Knit earth and heaven together!
Why, how now, Dromio! where runn'st thou so fast?
Treason, my lord! Lavinia is surprised!
Exit
I'll carry it to the pile.
Canst thou believe thy living is a life,
Thou art up-roused by some distemperature;
So distribution should undo excess,
Depose him in the justice of his cause.
To have a worthy feeding: but I have it
And so it is received. Now, pious sir,
And throw them in the entrails of the wolf?
And spread they shall be, to thy foul disgrace
His conquering banner shook from Syria
quick, quick, that I may lay my head in thy lap.
There was our error.
and of the season too, it shall appear.
It is our safety, and we must embrace
To CAMILLO
Hark, Tranio! thou may'st hear Minerva speak.
Thyself do grace to them, and bring them in.
To tumble down thy husband and thyself
You must not think I am so simple but I know the
That breathes upon a bank of violets,
to be drowned and go without her.
Then thus she says; your behavior hath struck her
Re-enter OSWALD
The immortal Jove's dead clamours counterfeit,
Prepare there,
Where is thy head? where's that? Ay me!
No.
To have his ear abused, wisdom bids fear.
that when thou art inclined to sleep.
Rather than rob me of the people's hearts!
ingrateful injury; to report otherwise, were a
Things won are done; joy's soul lies in the doing.
This and my food are equals; there's no odds:
like draught-oxen and make you plough up the wars.
Retires
Caesar should be a beast without a heart,
Cease, gentle queen, these execrations,
Is not infected: but if one present
perform, vowing more than the perfection of ten and
Well; the matter?
Marry, he must have a long spoon that must eat with
Know him in us, that here hold up his right.
Re-enter EDMUND
Now, afore God, 'tis shame such wrongs are borne
To be a widow-maker! O, and there
Quite to forget this quarrel and the cause.
I do, my lord.
Be-mock the modest moon.
Your pardon, sir; for this
Give me the gown. Where is thy instrument?
Even in the birth of our own labouring breath:
Thy topless deputation he puts on,
Yet your good will
He does me wrong, my lord; if I were so,
I will now hear; what say you of this gentlewoman?
My noble lord,--
And can you, by no drift of circumstance,
Gives in your weakness strength unto your foe,
That, like a rude and savage man of Inde,
Grace to boot!
to bid any man stand, in the prince's name.
I warrant you, with pure love and troubled brain, he
The one almost as infinite as all,
There died this morning of a cruel fever
By thy revolt, O husband, shall be thought
Madam, I pity much your grievances;
My true Paulina,
From whence thou camest, how tended on: but rest
Hail sir!
It would have much amazed you.
faith. How does your little son?
A man, young lady! lady, such a man
ACT I
counters; so the acquittance follows.
And made me climb, with danger of my life.
Enter MALCOLM and SIWARD
But here without you shall be so received
No, indeed, is't not; and I would to heaven
for, I protest, her frown might kill me.
Where sighs and groans and shrieks that rend the air
Enter PAROLLES
conscience take it.
Or here I'll cease.
His over-mounting spirit, and there died,
Farewell, good Master Oliver: not,--
poll; half of the which dare not shake snow from off
For what thou hast not, still thou strivest to get,
So, so;
Come, if the emperor's court can feast two brides,
CLEOPATRA kneels
not what's spent in the search: why, thou loss upon
Without her, follows to this land and me,
not?
And find the welcome of a noble foe.
Speak then, prince Dauphin; can you love this lady?
Lo, now I now see the issue of your peace.
And the place death, considering who thou art,
Pray you, come near: if I suspect without cause,
You would not do me thus much injury.
So, get you gone. If this penetrate, I will
Curster than she? why, 'tis impossible.
The rain and wind beat dark December, how,
Thanks, sir; all the rest is mute.
This pearl she gave me, I do feel't and see't;
When beggars die, there are no comets seen;
That quaffing and drinking will undo you: I heard
happiness!
A delicate odour.
For all the temporal lands which men devout
Launce! by mine honesty, welcome to Milan!
To her I go, a jolly thriving wooer.
Was there ever any man thus beaten out of season,
No, 'tis impossible he should escape,
lack of a dinner, if there live any thing in this
the people mad?
Judge.
To love her for her mother's sake, that loved him,
That I did love, for now my love is thaw'd;
I love thee not, therefore pursue me not.
should so dote on Signior Benedick, whom she hath in
Where's Fulvia's process? Caesar's I would say? both?
No: the princess hearing of her mother's statue,
A world of earthly blessings to my soul,
These flags of France, that are advanced here
And formally, according to our law,
At this same ancient feast of Capulet's
Exit
melancholy as she is, that it cannot but turn him
I'll have my kiss, sir. Lady, by your leave.
And loses that it works for.
Than woman's lightness? Having waste ground enough,
To die is to be banish'd from myself;
Where nature doth with merit challenge. Goneril,
Nor near nor farther off, my gracious lord,
Nay, he struck so plainly, I could too well feel his
My good lord cardinal, they vent reproaches
No longer stay.
You will set cock-a-hoop! you'll be the man!
To her that is not here, nor doth not hear.
hundred pound on't: and then a whoreson jackanapes
Excellent; it hangs like flax on a distaff; and I
And if he chance to speak, be ready straight
This happy breed of men, this little world,
should be a cuckold, held his hand. Well: on went he
With twenty hundred thousand times more joy
You use in abject and in slavish parts,
What is the matter?
In Philoten all graceful marks,
What art thou fall'n? What subtle hole is this,
Which now the manage of two kingdoms must
Made a divorce betwixt his queen and him,
house to put his head in? such may rail against
And beauty that the tyrant oft reclaims
Prester John's foot, fetch you a hair off the great
His discontents are unremoveably
It rains downright.
What Trojan is that same that looks so heavy?
Come, I will have thee; but, by this light, I take
With his own single hand he'ld take us in
Nor with thy sweets comfort his ravenous sense;
To hear a night-shriek; and my fell of hair
If he be not in love with some woman, there is no
Where these two Christian armies might combine
I have myself resolved upon a course
For he would needs be virtuous: that good fellow,
But that's all one; omittance is no quittance.
Go get you gone, and let the papers lie:
Let Antony and Caesar fall together.
That will be ere the set of sun.
O miserable thought! and more unlikely
So slackly guarded, and the search so slow,
These three have robb'd me; and this demi-devil--
there's a double tongue; there's two tongues.' Thus
A servant grafted in my serious trust
Then, madam,
If you dare not trust that you see, confess not
His rage can do on me: you must be gone;
Down fell their hose.
Two several times by night; at Sardis once,
Shall witness live in brass of this day's work:
What curious eye doth quote deformities?
If it be so, you have wound a goodly clew;
Say, then, my peace is made.
And ripen justice in this commonweal:
Are you so formal, sir? well, I must wait,
Sirrah, call in my sons to be my bail;
But wrong not that wrong with a more contempt.
a sorrow than have it.
Give me thy hand.
me, and I will no longer endure it: therefore allow
Into an honest house, our story says.
Speak to his gentle hearing kind commends.
'Tis to be fear'd they all will follow him.
But, fly I hence, I fly away from life.
To all the plains about him: our children's children
Exit
How now, Fluellen! camest thou from the bridge?
Why, would that have mended my hair?
Of charity, what kin are you to me?
By ruffian lust should be contaminate!
And tricking for our fairies.
When I was born, the wind was north.
Marry, sir, by a rule as plain as the plain bald
Of Sycorax, toads, beetles, bats, light on you!
brutish villain! worse than brutish! Go, sirrah,
Long since thy husband served me in my wars,
But lest you should not understand me well,--
It makes the consuls base: and my soul aches
Well, heaven send Anne Page no worse fortune! Tell
Whither?
Then let her beauty be her wedding-dower;
For forty ducats is too much to lose.
Give him the cup.
Put your main cause into the king's protection;
name is Ford.
must we all march?
You have made good work,
Now will I question Cassio of Bianca,
Nay, do not say, 'stand up;'
Be patient, York: if we conclude a peace,
Well, I do commend her choice;
You say true; 'tis so, indeed: if such tricks as
truly, he is very courageous mad about his throwing
March to the bridge; it now draws toward night:
I follow, mine host, I follow. Good even and
Give me a torch: I am not for this ambling;
Give answer to this boy, and do it freely;
His head from him: I'll throw't into the creek
And, fairy-like, to-pinch the unclean knight,
Take you some company, and away to horse:
And, moreover, bully,--but first, master guest, and
Shall I play my freedom at traytrip, and become thy
Killing their fruit with frowns? Can sodden water,
your whole plot too light for the counterpoise of so
All humbleness, all patience and impatience,
At board he fed not for my urging it;
Lock up my doors; and when you hear the drum
Of honour'd bones indeed. What should be said?
Exit Steward
But you'll be secret?
O faithless coward! O dishonest wretch!
as well as another man, a plague on my bringing up!
Enter THURIO, PROTEUS, and JULIA
And by other warranted testimony.
Because what follows is pure innocence.
Was grown into a hoop? hast thou forgot her?
Is a black Ethiope reaching at the sun
Give me thy sword. A peasant stand up thus!
Treason is not inherited, my lord;
Who, but for dreaming on this fond exploit,
Of my lord's tricks and yours when you were boys:
'Convey,' the wise it call. 'Steal!' foh! a fico
From whence we had our being and our birth.
Wherefore to Dover? Let him first answer that.
John Duke of Norfolk, Walter Lord Ferrers,
In an odd angle of the isle and sitting,
What would my potent master? here I am.
unto you again, you are a shallow cowardly hind, and
I take to-day a wife, and my election
Made me neglect my studies, lose my time,
As she lived now.
Hath shook and trembled at the ill neighbourhood.
And in compassion weep the fire out;
Ay, so I say.
it never be day? I will trot to-morrow a mile, and
Here's a young lad framed of another leer:
With men of courage and with means defendant;
There will we make our peds of roses,
As I have said you did.
Health to you, valiant sir,
And that I'll write upon thy burgonet,
And as for Clarence, as my letters tell me,
Enter AENEAS
Unless abroad they purchase great alliance?
And let us swear our resolution.
She'ld come again, and with a greedy ear
Here comes young Master Ganymede, my new mistress's brother.
The French, advised by good intelligence
The mere despair of surgery, he cures,
Exit LEPIDUS
'O that these hands could so redeem my son,
is stronger than Hercules: he will lie, sir, with
and the boy:--
He raised the house with loud and coward cries.
Vouchsafe, at our request, to stand aside,
But that myself should be the root and father
And come some other time to know our mind.
I would speak blasphemy ere bid you fly:
The strong-wing'd Mercury should fetch thee up,
I would, not so!--and would no more endure
Than, by concealing it, heap on your head
Mine eyes should sparkle like the beaten flint;
That kneel'd unto the buds. Admit him, sir.
Or do I dream? or have I dream'd till now?
But now, my lord.
between Saint Denis and Saint George, compound a
For I have served him, and the man commands
Exit
O Signieur Dew, thou diest on point of fox,
rushling, I warrant you, in silk and gold; and in
This did I fear, but thought he had no weapon;
Heard you confess you had the chain of him
Not that I fear to stay, but love to go
When thy poor heart beats with outrageous beating,
Enter HORATIO, MARCELLUS, and BERNARDO
Peace with his soul, heaven, if it be thy will!
As you enjoin'd me, I have writ your letter
Twice for one step I'll groan, the way being short,
all the rest from their functions: they put forth
Without the which I am not to be won,
They would be better, if well followed.
ANTIPHOLUS
Cassio did top her; ask thy husband else.
Which, pardon me, I do not mean to read--
Hie thee again:
To foreign princes, 'Ego et Rex meus'
SCENE II. Before the cave of Belarius.
What is here?
Think true love acted simple modesty.
Should yield the world this ass! a woman that
And had, besides this gentleman in question,
He swore, had had neither motion, guard, nor eye,
to think on't. What says she there?
And grew a twenty years removed thing
Both of Galen and Paracelsus.
boy that stole your meat, and you'll beat the post.
Enough of this; I pray thee, hold thy peace.
To such a sudden flood of mutiny.
Sprung from neglected love. How now, Ophelia!
If you had known the virtue of the ring,
Give me audience, good madam.
No, madam, 'tis not so well that I am poor, though
Whose voices I desire aloud with mine:
A ram, and bleated; and the fire-robed god,
Melting the darkness, so their rising senses
Well, the fuel is gone that maintained that fire:
Enter Messenger
us. When we banished him, we respected not them;
What masque? what music? How shall we beguile
The pangs of despised love, the law's delay,
That cannot choose but amaze him.
Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
It shall do well: but yet do I believe
good prey of us, if he knew of it; for there is
The general, subject to a well-wish'd king,
And I from heaven banish'd as from hence!
Upon thy eye-balls murderous tyranny
I tell thee, man, 'tis better with me now
I'll gild it with the happiest terms I have.
High birth, vigour of bone, desert in service,
I have, Antiochus, and, with a soul
backside the town.
Bless thee, Bottom! bless thee! thou art
To punish them; although not done, but meant.
The man I speak of cannot in the world
I think it is in Macedon where Alexander is porn. I
Have made to thy command? I, her? her blood?
The Ladies mask
Be mad and merry, or go hang yourselves:
Exit
the bastard is fled from Messina: you have among
Our troops set forth to-morrow: stay with us;
And never yet could frame my will to it;
Now, quiet soul, depart when heaven please,
And in record, left them the heirs of shame.
Here is a captain, let him tell the tale;
Do get their children; but in this case of wooing,
I'll lend you something: my having is not much;
As Ariachne's broken woof to enter.
You are pardon'd, Isabel:
Trumpet sounds. Enter certain Citizens upon the walls
Enter HELENA, and two Gentlemen
For that's the end of human misery.
What wheels? racks? fires? what flaying? boiling?
The maid hath given consent to go with him.
My love admits no qualifying dross;
Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
Now, for my life, Hortensio fears his widow.
He hath been most notoriously abused.
bear, yet he is oft led by the nose with gold: show
To him in thine own voice, and bring me word how
Why, there was a crown offered him: and being
It was, as I have seen it in his life,
And bless it to all fair prosperity:
'Twere deadly sickness or else present death.
Know, if you kill me for my fault, I should
I make bold to press with so little preparation upon
We two alone will sing like birds i' the cage:
pour in, pour in; his ambition is dry.
I long to know the truth hereof at large.
made all the unbaked and doughy youth of a nation in
Then down upon her knees she falls, weeps, sobs,
But greater sin to keep a sinful oath.
Beshrew thee, cousin, which didst lead me forth
It seems you know not, then, so much as we:
Why, Warwick, hath thy knee forgot to bow?
And see whether Brutus be alive or dead;
Sound to this coward and lascivious town
Enter SIR JOHN SOMERVILLE
Appear in forms more horrid,--yet my duty,
sayest thou that house is dark?
Whom I would save, had a most noble father!
Good gentle youth, tempt not a desperate man;
wouldst not be a villain, but do me true service,
The finch, the sparrow and the lark,
And happily repent.
You are always my good friend; if your will pass,
bald; a fair face will wither; a full eye will wax
Most rare Pompey!
He and Aufidius can no more atone
To noble Edmund. I know you are of her bosom.
'Tis better that the enemy seek us:
Good madam, hear me.
To clap this royal bargain up of peace,
Grave witnesses of true experience,
In spring time,  and c.
Sings heavy music to thy timorous soul;
Thou villain Capulet,--Hold me not, let me go.
For, as I am a man, I think this lady
Here is Sir Diomed. Go, gentle knight,
yield them,
Or of the deadly seven, it is the least.
that by the way; I praise heaven for it.
I'll speak to thee in silence.
Exit
The duke is made protector of the realm;
How can these contrarieties agree?
SCENE I. Athens. The palace of THESEUS.
My life may last to answer.
If I myself, there is no hour so fit
Who's the next heir of Naples?
With shining chequer'd slough, doth sting a child
Yea, and paid me richly for the practise of it.
Why, then, 'tis hers, my lord; and, being hers,
With my more noble meaning, not a man
that blind rascally boy that abuses every one's eyes
And in the wood, where often you and I
Our talk must only be of Benedick.
Than if thou never hadst deserved our hate.
And, like a hungry lion, did commence
It lies to cure me: and the cure is, to
Good night, good doctor.
When in the world I lived, I was the world's
Antony's course, you shall bereave yourself
Brutus, my lord!
And hath preferr'd thee, if it be preferment
it, and the lady hath it: sweet clown, sweeter
No, not a whit: what! I have watch'd ere now
Being but the second generation
A man of complements, whom right and wrong
To make thee consul.
But I shall, in a more continuate time,
Than hands or tongue, her spotless chastity,
cannot be so neither: yes, it is so, it is so, it
Some touches of remorse? or is your blood
[Kneeling]
Were't not a shame, that whilst you live at jar,
De hand. Et les doigts?
That warns my old age to a sepulchre.
Throw their best eyes upon't!
Flourish
of his head to the sole of his foot, he is all
That, from your first of difference and decay,
First were we sad, fearing you would not come;
I do not know the man I should avoid
office between you.
To mend the petty present, I will piece
But, as the rest, so fell that noble earl
Say, didst thou speak with him? know'st thou his mind?
Ladies, there is an idle banquet attends you:
More noble blows than ever thou wise words;
Exeunt
That stretch their duties nicely.
As fester'd members rot but by degree,
croak like a raven; I would bode, I would bode.
What thing! why, a thing to thank God on.
Misprision in the highest degree! Lady, cucullus non
months ago, and not forgotten yet? Then there's
Madam!
In ear and ear. O my dear Gertrude, this,
counsellor; if you can command these elements to
That mought not be distinguished; but at last
I did not see you; welcome, gentle signior;
A natural perspective, that is and is not!
It skills not much. we'll fit him to our turn,--
men and gives them suits of durance; he that sets up
By which the world's best garden be achieved,
Which she shall purchase with still lasting war.
And all together, with the Duke of Suffolk,
Whose nature is so far from doing harms,
Calchas, I think. Where's your daughter?
Enter ROSS
Thy faith my fancy to thee doth combine.
But that of hand: the still and mental parts,
How he's employ'd: he shall in time be ready.
Ay, when my father was in Rome she did.
Stand close; I hear them coming.
better--their writers do them wrong, to make them
That art incestuous: caitiff, to pieces shake,
No better than a poor and loathsome beggar:
My lord, in Athens.
I will fetch you a tooth-picker now from the
He longs to eat the English.
loose-wived, so it is a deadly sorrow to behold a
Exeunt TROILUS, AENEAS, and ULYSSES
And he shall spend mine honour with his shame,
If haply you my father do suspect
Nor from the dust of old oblivion raked,
No.
Exeunt
Then let the worst unheard fall on your bead.
From Troy and Troilus.
Out-sweeten'd not thy breath: the ruddock would,
His soldiers sick and famish'd in their march,
I know my duty; you are all undutiful:
Belike, some noble gentleman that means,
Well, I must do't:
As how I came into that desert place:--
Thou darest not, for thy own.
And hark, what noise the general makes! To him!
I have many other ways to die; meantime
You not your child well loving, yet I find
He is with Caesar.
So, now the gates are ope: now prove good seconds:
Nor sight of priests in holy vestments bleeding,
The vision. Enter, solemnly tripping one after  another, six personages, clad in white robes,  wearing on their heads garlands of bays, and golden  vizards on their faces; branches of bays or palm in  their hands. They first congee unto her, then  dance; and, at certain changes, the first two hold  a spare garland over her head; at which the other  four make reverent curtsies; then the two that held  the garland deliver the same to the other next two,  who observe the same order in their changes, and  holding the garland over her head: which done,  they deliver the same garland to the last two, who  likewise observe the same order: at which, as it  were by inspiration, she makes in her sleep signs  of rejoicing, and holdeth up her hands to heaven:  and so in their dancing vanish, carrying the garland with them. The music continues
That it may stand till the perpetual doom,
My mistress made it one upon my cheek:
You speak it out of fear and cold heart.
yourself that which I am sure you do not know, or
So season'd with your faithful love to me.
Shall, for thy love, kill a far truer love;
Our purposes God justly hath discover'd;
Lord of Salisbury!
Where hast thou led me? I perhaps speak this
What says she to my birth?
I follow you.
But I shall live, my lord, to give them thanks
To each of you one fair and virtuous mistress
Singing
You cannot speak of reason to the Dane,
Have been beholding to him in his life;
Call him hither to me, soldier.
Will laugh a siege to scorn: here let them lie
'Tis warm at 's heart.
Tell me, thou fellow, is not France forsworn?
For I can raise no money by vile means:
Is to do thus; when such a mutual pair
Am I made?
I cannot find him: may be the knave bragged of that
Alas, she hath from France too long been chased,
And as the sun breaks through the darkest clouds,
French thrift, you rogues; myself and skirted page.
As this Gonzalo; I myself could make
Thou shalt know her, fellow, by the rest that have no heads.
Possess the people in Messina here
A holy day shall this be kept hereafter:
Burn hotter than my faith.
You judge it straight a thing impossible
The honour'd gashes whole.
First, her bedchamber,--
The peace of England and our persons' safety,
And stood within the blank of his displeasure
Though to no use but still to look on you!
A worthy fellow,
Why, if it please you, take it for your labour:
Am I a queen in title and in style,
leak in your chimney; and your chamber-lie breeds
A hilding for a livery, a squire's cloth,
indeed more than I took her for.
breath of him in a divided draught, is the readiest
And to you, gentle sir, and to you all.
This news, I think, hath turn'd your weapon's edge;
Made you no more offence but what you speak of?
never take her without her answer, unless you take
Which makes me sweat with wrath. Come on, my fellows:
And to the chapel let us presently.
Exit
I think 'twas Soto that your honour means.
To undeservers.
Where never man's eye may behold my body:
her the infernal Ate in good apparel. I would to God
Rebellion lay in his way, and he found it.
SCENE V. The same. A street.
And you sat smiling at his cruel pray.
But even for want of that for which I am richer,
Ere thou shalt lose for me one drop of blood.
What an ass art thou! I understand thee not.
For thou mayst see a sunshine and a hail
Till famine and the ague eat them up:
These dead men's tombs.
I like this well; he will return again.
SCENE II. Southampton. A council-chamber.
Must there no more be done?
Let me go to him.
shapes that man goes up and down in from fourscore
or a hair less, in his beard, than thou hast: thou
Which you weep for.
O, let me teach you how to knit again
Sticking together in calamity.
where our fate,
One of them we behold.
Down, ladies; let us shame him with our knees.
SCENE III. Another part of Blackheath.
your good heart! I wished your venison better; it
Gentlemen, go, muster up your men,
For lately we were bound, as you are now
That wished him on the barren mountains starve.
Give me thy gold, if thou hast any gold:
Exit
Are my discourses dull? barren my wit?
To PISANIO
And York and impious Beaufort, that false priest,
Lord Stafford's father, Duke of Buckingham,
My lord?
You nymphs, call'd Naiads, of the windring brooks,
I am possess'd of: 'tis exactly valued;
dozens? Is this Moorfields to muster in? or have
Sir Valour dies; cries 'O, enough, Patroclus;
Re-enter GRATIANO
better stead thee than now. Put money in thy
Which grieves me when I see my shame in him.
These were her words, utter'd with mad disdain:
This is the point.
Didst speak him fair?
I am blest in your acquaintance. Do you know Ford,
Is guilty of this fault and not my son.
On his command: he would not suffer me
Why, 'tis no great matter; for a very little thief of
of invention: taunt him with the licence of ink:
As heart can think: there is not such a word
Even like a fawning greyhound in the leash,
Whether dost thou profess thyself, a knave or a fool?
A son who is the theme of honour's tongue;
Or lose our ventures.
Good my complexion! dost thou think, though I am
them talk of a fardel and I know not what: but he
Re-enter LUCIO and two Gentlemen
Who talks within there? ho, open the door!
You know, sometimes he walks four hours together
'Sblood, but you will not hear me:
And you tell me that he shall die for it.
Since that respects of fortune are his love,
Thy knower, Patroclus: then tell me, Patroclus,
Thanks for that:
Must be my convoy in the secret night.
Thy lips that kiss'd the queen shall sweep the ground;
Or else thou diest to-morrow.
their wits with their wives: and then give them
Let's hear our tribune: peace Speak, speak, speak.
Mark you that?
Ransomless here we set our prisoners free:
Finely put off!
No space of earth shall sunder our two hates:
Which is the wiser here? Justice or Iniquity? Is
stole from Florence, taking no leave, and I follow
To wit, besides commends and courteous breath,
Gives us more palm in beauty than we have,
You have simply misused our sex in your love-prate:
continent of what part a gentleman would see.
And I will boot thee with what gift beside
The honourable father to my foe
To beggarly divorcement--love him dearly,
therefore fire: do thy duty, and have thy duty; for
Your lieutenant, if you list; he's no standard.
Now is your time: speak loud and kneel before him.
Shall send between the red rose and the white
SCENE V. The French camp.
Than Hector is: the wound of peace is surety,
Shall I strike at it with my partisan?
Peace, ho! let us hear him.
And we will answer all things faithfully.
Not know my voice! O time's extremity,
Resign thy chair, and where I stand kneel thou,
sit, sit. The gods require our thanks.
Fair fall the face it covers!
Think when we talk of horses, that you see them
Which ever since hath kept my eyes from rest;
What love, think'st thou, I sue so much to get?
I shall attend you presently at your tent.
Unto the appetite and affection common
And when you saw his chariot but appear,
One of these three contains her heavenly picture.
Thus wisdom wishes to appear most bright
Come hither, fellow.
And yet--O, see the monstrousness of man
Indifferent.
say I am a magician. Therefore, put you in your
Here are the heads of thy two noble sons;
Thou but offend'st thy lungs to speak so loud:
Ah, rogue!
And beggar'd yours for ever?
Madam, we did: he desires to make atonement
To prove thou hast a true-divining heart,
own fool's eyes peep.
To BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS
Whose influence is begot of that loose grace
Enter ISABELLA
And prove it too, against mine honour aught,
Therefore 'tis meet Achilles meet not Hector.
On your imaginary forces work.
Then is my sovereign slain?
She says I am not fair, that I lack manners;
I will confirm with oath; which, I doubt not,
To wage against thy enemies; nor fear to lose it,
By nursing them, my lord. List a brief tale;
there rooted betwixt them then such an affection,
And thy sea-marge, sterile and rocky-hard,
Titus Lartius writes, they fought together, but
Thou shouldst have made him
There's honour in the theft.
Enter SIR WALTER BLUNT
Larded with many several sorts of reasons
He doth indeed show some sparks that are like wit.
Hast thou so crack'd and splitted my poor tongue
Where heart doth hop:
Welcome, Horatio: welcome, good Marcellus.
should enjoy half his revenue,'--My son Edgar!
I will not stay thy questions; let me go:
Our cause, that she should lie i' the bosom of
Yet cannot hold this visible shape, my knave.
That I have been your wife, in this obedience,
How many actions most ridiculous
fellows' counsels and your own; and good night.
By these exterior shows? But she is none:
constant men be Troiluses, all false women Cressids,
My high-repented blames,
I charge you, as you hope to have redemption
curiosity; in thy rags thou knowest none, but art
liberty into bondage: I will deal in poison with
Me well; which is the prescript praise and
If I may counsel you, some day or two
Thy place is fill'd, thy sceptre wrung from thee,
Hie hence, and tell him so. Yet, stay awhile;
True; and thou seest that I no issue have
I will, my lord.
Did this in Caesar seem ambitious?
You have it full, Benedick: we may guess by this
common; and in Cheapside shall my palfrey go to
With forms to his conceit? and all for nothing!
It was the pleasure of my lord the King.
We will perform in measure, time and place:
Present yourself, desire his service, tell him
And Cydnus swell'd above the banks, or for
Exeunt all but MONTAGUE, LADY MONTAGUE, and BENVOLIO
He may surrender; so we shall proceed
Where it was forged, with my rapier's point.
Yet, I persuade myself, to speak the truth
But whither shall we then?
Good sir, be patient.
He that keeps nor crust nor crum,
Nay, good my lord, go off:
befriend me so far, as to use mine own words to him?
Well, bear you well in this new spring of time,
And makes milch-kine yield blood and shakes a chain
[To PAGE]  Will you go with us to behold it? My
And trust me, love, in my eye so do you:
O Warwick, Warwick! I foresee with grief
Of a certain knight that swore by his honour they
A man no mightier than thyself or me
The emptying of our fathers' luxury,
Thou hate and terror to prosperity,
By three and twenty thousand of the French
That hang'd and drawn and quartered, there should be
For that her reputation was disvalued
So you do condescend to help me now.
Exeunt
Where I have come, great clerks have purposed
And your unthought-of Harry chance to meet.
Showing, as in a model, our firm estate,
He sheweth him a paper
Which will require your answer, you must take
No, faith, die by attorney. The poor world is
Go in with us and see: we have an hour's talk with
who in a cheap estimation, is worth predecessors
If your life be saved, will you undertake to betray
From miserable slumber I awaked.
What is Thisby? a wandering knight?
The moon! the sun: it is not moonlight now.
What do you think of my daughter, sir?
That they will waste their time upon our note,
Welcome, my lord, to this brave town of York.
A retreat sounded
Loved me above the measure of a father;
Enter a Messenger
by my villany, which did confirm any slander that
How now, Patroclus!
I am the last of noble Edward's sons,
I see by you I am a sweet-faced youth.
I do, sans question.
You are of our chamber, and our mind partakes
Places remote enough are in Bohemia,
Made suit to come in's presence; which if granted,
Let's see't. I will pursue her
Hadst thou Narcissus in thy face, to me
answer to what I shall ask you out of a note.
Upon the water as he'll stand and read
And even that falsehood, in itself a sin,
Absolute queen.
Neglect the visitation of my friends.
Do so, for it is worth the listening to. These nine
I do never use it.
As well appeareth by the cause you come;
than as a very pretence and purpose of unkindness:
imposition depending on the caskets.
I beseech you heartily, some of you go home with me
rhyme; for 'scorn,' 'horn,' a hard rhyme; for,
Seek Percy and thyself about the field:
Good faith, I am no wiser than a daw.
In parcels as I did, would have gone near
Sleeping and waking, O, defend me still!
She said so: I must needs report the truth.
poor old woman. That same knave Ford, her husband,
Never yet branded with suspicion?
I wish you all the joy that you can wish;
And follow unacquainted colours here?
You should enjoy, were you this country's king,
Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answer'd?
But are they, Ariel, safe?
ACT I
He is gone, indeed.
Re-enter Servant
Enter MERCADE
Cannot amount unto a hundred marks;
Go, nurse, go with her: we'll to church to-morrow.
hare-lip; mildews the white wheat, and hurts the
Prithee, hold thy peace; this is not the way: do
speaker is but a prater; a rhyme is but a ballad. A
And meet me presently at Salisbury.
Your grandfather of famous memory, an't please your
We count not worth the hanging, but none human,
To mourn thy crosses, with thy daughter's, call
There's in him stuff that puts him to these ends;
SCENE II. Another part of the heath. Storm still.
wrangle in when you have nothing else to do.
That commonly rebels. 'Tis a good hand,
Must wear your spirits low; we cannot help it:
lose the tide, if you tarry any longer.
eye or so, but not to the purpose. Signior
Which every noble Roman bears of you.
Witness, how dear I hold this confirmation.
and have a desire, as my father shall specify--
And bids me speak of nothing but despair.
This sessions, to our great grief we pronounce,
I am from humble, he from honour'd name;
The throne he sits on, nor the tide of pomp
Nay, an you be so tardy, come no more in my sight: I
Of my success.
Thou thinkest I am in sport: I pray thee tell me
Dromio; swore I was assured to her; told me what
If not a feodary, but only he
Methinks I see thee, now thou art below,
Vouchsafe a word, young sister, but one word.
Enter Pandar, Bawd, and BOULT
How came you in these parts? where were you bred?
Sure, the boy heard me: Brutus hath a suit
What out of this, my lord?
Fie, that you'll say so! he plays o' the
Break off the parley; for scarce I can refrain
And then 'twas fresh in murmur,--as, you know,
Agrippa further speak.
Well, sir.
To my heart's hope! Gold; silver; and base lead.
Behold, it is the privilege of mine honours,
Their wishes, do discandy, melt their sweets
One hour's storm will drown the fragrant meads;
For that is her demand, and know her business?
As thou art to this hour was Richard then
As best befits her wounded reputation,
Sir!
I did but crave.
In compliment extern, 'tis not long after
But like a man he died.
As if she had suborned some to swear
with malice and malice forced with wit turn him to?
So to seduce!--won to his shameful lust
Now he denies it faintly, and laughs it out.
As I by friends am well advertised,
Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY, SIMPLE, and RUGBY
Madam, not so; I do beseech you, stay.
His life was gentle, and the elements
thee profitably.
word; but see how I lay the dust with my tears.
The common file--a plague! tribunes for them!--
Well, you have made a simple choice; you know not
would make it flame again: for the nobles receive
And thus I search it with a sovereign kiss.
He pageants us. Sometime, great Agamemnon,
I was provoked by her slanderous tongue,
Her life is only safest in her birth.
And make his dead trunk pillow to our lust.
The gold I give thee will I melt and pour
Yet keeps his book uncross'd: no life to ours.
I did full hard forbear him. But, I pray you, sir,
I pray you, deliver him this petition;
And every tongue brings in a several tale,
This she? no, this is Diomed's Cressida:
Why dost thou stay?
They call for dates and quinces in the pastry.
KING CLAUDIUS dies
house; and what they made there, I know not. Well,
Come, sir.
my purse; I am yet thy debtor. Boy, go along with
The purest spring is not so free from mud
I kill'd a man, whose death I much repent;
her, being ever from their cradles bred together,
And drop into the rotten mouth of death.
Thou reft'st me of my lands. Euriphile,
Is it e'en so? why, then, I thank you all
come to him, at the first approach you must kneel,
And word it, prithee, piteously: hence, Mardian,
That Rome can make against them.
And smooth my way upon their headless necks;
all things: I will tell you, asse my friend,
Therefore our everlasting farewell take:
And say a soldier, Dian, told thee this,
which hath two letters for her name fairly set down
fain be about the ears of the English.
My goods, my lands, my reputation;
O Jesu, I have heard the prince tell him, I know not
If any ship put out, then straight away.
without seeking find, and be embraced by a piece of
But I will sort a pitchy day for thee;
Are not you a coward? answer me to that: and Poins there?
Fly, fly, my lord; there is no tarrying here.
Though enemy, lost aim, and could not?
They turn to vicious forms, ten times more ugly
You ask with such a violence, the king,
Boult, take you the marks of her, the colour of her
To soft and gentle speech.
Into so quiet and so sweet a style.
Bear with me; I am hungry for revenge,
master's whistle. Blow, till thou burst thy wind,
What lets but one may enter at her window?
That were impossible: but, I pray you both,
Is not itself, nor have we won one foot,
And for amends to his posterity,
Do not doubt that; before Emilia here
The fatal colours of our striving houses:
Gave Hector a gift, the heir of Ilion;
is, that the lunacy is so ordinary that the whippers
She will not come: she bids you come to her.
Nor shall not, when my fancy's on my play.
Jeweller:	I have a jewel here--
By a sharp torture.
corrupt her; only he hath made an essay of her
He murder cries and help from Athens calls.
James Tyrrel, and your most obedient subject.
You must perforce accomplish as you may.
Till I conveniently could send to Romeo:
My husband lost his life to get the crown;
Lightens my humour with his merry jests.
And how does that honourable, complete, free-hearted
And to the battle came he; where he did
There is no world without Verona walls,
In what enormity is Marcius poor in, that you two
made, if thou desirest to be so; if not, let me see
Let us score their backs,
and heard; but faintly, nothing like the image
No, I will not, for it boots thee not.
That hath received some unrecuring wound.
The multitude, beside themselves with fear,
That can translate the stubbornness of fortune
Well, we will have such a prologue; and it shall be
A grievous fault! Say, woman, didst thou so?
To say I am thy mother? What's the matter,
Something that's brief; and bid 'Good morrow, general.'
That matter needless, of importless burden,
And in her heart she scorns our poverty:
Love is your master, for he masters you:
ANTIPHOLUS
A thing more made of malice than of duty:
Great Kings of France and England! That I have labour'd,
horse is tied up safe: out, sword, and to a sore
Or, at the least, in hers sepulchre thine.
She prizes not such trifles as these are:
Good my liege,--
My royal nephew, and your name Capucius.
Enter three or four Citizens
Ha!
Am I not stay'd for? tell me.
Fled with a Christian! O my Christian ducats!
Is guilty of this lamentable chance!
Why and wherein Caesar was dangerous.
Shall, for that vast of night that they may work,
Since love our hearts and Hymen did our hands
Here sheathe thy sword, I'll pardon thee my death:
And bid the owners quench them with their tears.
I can live no longer by thinking.
And all we mourn for.
At Tarsus, and by Cleon train'd
And quaff carouses to our mistress' health,
That God fought for us.
Lie there, my art. Wipe thou thine eyes; have comfort.
Yet in this captious and intenible sieve
Which I beseech your highness to forgive,
Take her, fair son, and from her blood raise up
That thus he suffers for.
never see thy face but I think upon hell-fire and
fortune, by the saint whom I profess, I will plead
At the hour of nine.
may we barricado it against him?
Of greater sums than I have promised.
And the right-valiant Banquo walk'd too late;
Blind fear, that seeing reason leads, finds safer
For who is living, if those two are gone?
For since the birth of Cain, the first male child,
Than to demand what 'tis. Your brother cannot live.
I bade you never speak again of him:
Enter MARK ANTONY and OCTAVIA
Beg thou, or borrow, to make up the sum,
two brace of greyhounds.
Than I to Hercules: within a month:
no money at all and a little more wit, return again to Venice.
Enter certain Senators, and pass over
But if she cannot love you, sir?
When I would pray and think, I think and pray
And I will do so.
And makest me call what I intend to do
It is an old coat.
Work without it. Truth is, that Fulvia,
In the Rialto you have rated me
Music
Thou counterfeit to thy true friend!
O, how it yearn'd my heart when I beheld
pity him, they took from me the use of mine own
Nor tempt the danger of my true defence;
Or know what ground's made happy by his breath.
Naked in bed, Iago, and not mean harm!
Hence ever then my heart is in thy breast.
For worse than Philomel you used my daughter,
country in denying me a kiss: therefore, patiently
And now at last, laden with horror's spoils,
Upon what cause?
Ay, every man away:
Remember to avenge me on the French.'
or I'll none; virtuous, or I'll never cheapen her;
What's your pleasure, sir?
[Aside to AGRIPPA]  That year, indeed, he was
Water with berries in't, and teach me how
[Aside to MALCOLM]  What should be spoken here,
Than that conferr'd on Goneril. Now, our joy,
Enter young YORK, HASTINGS, and the CARDINAL
For girls of nine, O, think what they have done
Being urged at a time unseasonable.
Express'd in the condition, let the forfeit
His power went out in such distractions as
white spot about her.
As you are now, for you are cold and stem;
droplets which
For I have none: let no man speak again
set this counterfeit.
[Aside to SIMPLE]  Are you avised o' that? you
To cure this deadly grief.
Captain Gower: the rascally, scald, beggarly,
Now, by my hood, a Gentile and no Jew.
And on his grave-stone this insculpture, which
Feather of lead, bright smoke, cold fire,
When he demean'd himself rough, rude and wildly.
Well, niece, I hope to see you one day fitted with a husband.
Here comes the king.
Exit FALSTAFF
I know ye well enough.
The sacred honour of himself, his queen's,
burrows, like conies after rain, and revel all with
Not truly speaks; who speaks not truly, lies.
Not to come off, in his displeasure.
A little cloth.
some goose, in this.
I twice five hundred and their friends to piece 'em.
SCENE II. Corioli. The Senate-house.
Suffer thy brother Marcus to inter
And so I do commend you to their backs. Farewell.
Then thus. Baptista is safe, talking with the
He is a better scholar than I thought he was.
Husband!
A miserable by the death of him
It is not night when I do see your face,
An odorous chaplet of sweet summer buds
Why, then, build me thy fortunes upon the basis of
And the remainder mourning over them,
Re-enter CLEOMENES and others, with FLORIZEL and PERDITA
Is not thy kindness subtle, covetous,
Dost thou call me fool, boy?
With such full licence as both truth and malice
As I have read, laid claim unto the crown;
This lapwing runs away with the shell on his head.
Exeunt
I love thee brotherly, but envy much
It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven
and blood has not offended the king; and so your
A pound of that same merchant's flesh is thine:
I'll undertake to make thee Henry's queen,
Being ne'er so little urged, another way
Which, whiles it lasted, gave King Henry light.
What were I best to say? her father's brother
me your good report to the prince my master.
Why, this passes, Master Ford; you are not to go
[Reads]  Sweet Bassanio, my ships have all
But that my Lady Beatrice should know me, and not
To call upon him; he hopes it is no other
By this account then Margaret may win him;
losing of hope by time.
O blessed, blessed night! I am afeard.
And yet not many.
Give me to drink mandragora.
nothing, for we may live to have need of such a
An hour or more, not meaning any harm?
That lie too heavy on the commonwealth,
wrongs you.
Fair sir, you are well o'erta'en
I dare say you love him not so ill, to wish him here
corner and cry heigh-ho for a husband!
That which you are, mistress o' the feast: come on,
But Cassius is no more. O setting sun,
O Tranio, till I found it to be true,
Nothing is done to purpose. Therefore, beseech you,--
Ay, but thou usest to forswear thyself:
Augment, or alter, as your wisdoms best
Most radiant, exquisite and unmatchable beauty,--I
Consent upon the order of their fight,
That heirless it hath made my kingdom and
Though it do split you; for, from this day forth,
Nor heady-rash, provoked with raging ire,
And fought so long, till that his thighs with darts
flayed already.
But, with a proud majestical high scorn,
Solicit Henry with her wondrous praise:
Have buried them for prey!
Away! the foul fiend follows me!
Your own good thoughts excuse me, and farewell:
Hug their diseased perfumes, and have forgot
put me into this apparel.
His spell in that is out: the king hath found
Do I entice you? do I speak you fair?
Why, no; for she hath broke the lute to me.
And now they never meet in grove or green,
And take thy office from thee, on my peril.
My life itself, and the best heart of it,
Even as I have of fertile England's soil.
[Aside]  He's a strange fellow himself, and knows it
Manner'd as she is born.
Good queen!
Nay, Master Page, be not impatient.
Save to the God of heaven and to my king;
unlettered, or ratherest, unconfirmed fashion, to
What foolish boldness brought thee to their mercies,
That in their sleeps will mutter their affairs:
which his wife seems to me well-favored. I will
With pestilent speeches of his father's death;
for you; and I pray you to serve Got, and keep you
Exit
O that I knew he were but in by the week!
Such as by God's book are adjudged to death.
kind and natural; with him, the portion and sinew of
Exit
As slippery as the Gordian knot was hard!
souviendrai. Les doigts? je pense qu'ils sont
When blood is nipp'd and ways be foul,
Upon my soul, two reverend cardinal virtues;
Hated by one he loves; braved by his brother;
I shall do that that is reason.
No, indeed, did she not: here have I brought him
Look you, she loved her kinsman Tybalt dearly,
oil that's in me should set hell on fire; he would
Come forth.
That it is meet so few should fetch the prince.
Leap in with me into this angry flood,
From my cold heart let heaven engender hail,
Thou speak'st it falsely, as I love mine honour;
Come, sir.
If thou receive me for thy warlike mate.
How now, noble Pompey! What, at the wheels of
I have heard it, Pompey;
For never two such kingdoms did contend
could have been to him and then your blood had been
Enter CLOTEN and Lords
Whereof you are a well-deserving pillar,
Knock,
end of the ship, to see how the sea flap-dragoned
Whiles, in his moan, the ship splits on the rock,
So did we woo
nothing, to do nothing, to know nothing, and to have
'twill out at the key-hole; stop that, 'twill fly
One that I would were here, Friar Lodowick.
the old man's daughter told us all.
[Waking]  Sleep, thou hast been a grandsire, and begot
To stay you from election.
Dukes, earls, lords, gentlemen; indeed, of all.
Why, that will I.
But he's in a suit of buff which 'rested him, that can I tell.
I cry your honour mercy; you may, worst
What dreadful dole is here!
If thou wilt fight, fight by thy father's side;
SCENE II. The camp near Tamworth.
Can you not hate me, as I know you do,
As offer'd mercy is. What was the last
Shall I? content: this chair shall be my state,
Do swarm upon him--from the western isles
Papist, howsome'er their hearts are severed in
Prince John is this morning secretly stolen away;
thy honour
But mine it will, that no exploit have done:
I know no touch of consanguinity;
Chiron, we hunt not, we, with horse nor hound,
Get you some of this distilled Carduus Benedictus,
Are brought your eyes; what need speak I?
And wish his mistress were that kind of fruit
Now the wasted brands do glow,
If any thing that's civil, speak; if savage,
I tell thee, Licio, this is wonderful.
Than any that draws breath in Italy.
His daughter's trial! that he did but see
And to the love and favor of my country
O worthy duke,
I know her answer.
Richard loves Richard; that is, I am I.
She gives it out that you shall marry hey:
Together sung 'Te Deum.' So she parted,
Pins and poking-sticks of steel,
Prick not your finger as you pluck it off,
But Brutus makes mine greater than they are.
Dash him to pieces!
But, till the king come forth, and not till then,
wear strange suits, disable all the benefits of your
possession of the pridge; but he is enforced to
To CARDINAL WOLSEY
Italian fiend! Ay me, most credulous fool,
A good mouth-filling oath, and leave 'in sooth,'
Four milk-white horses, trapp'd in silver.
I trust the ghost of Talbot is not there:
If it be,
Re-enter DOUGLAS; he fights with FALSTAFF,  who falls down as if he were dead, and exit DOUGLAS. HOTSPUR is wounded, and falls
For in a minute there are many days:
Good sir, whose powers are these?
Give fire: she is my prize, or ocean whelm them all!
Toward the king, my ever royal master,
If in which time expired, he not return,
Pardon, my lord.
Tongue and brain not; either both or nothing;
No, sir, there are moe with him.
French part of such a boy; and for my English moiety
Here lies our way.
Hang'd in the frowning wrinkle of her brow!
God make your majesty joyful as you have been!
But what see I? No Thisby do I see.
Not to consider in what case thou stand'st,
Go not about; my love hath in't a bond,
Say'st thou me so? is that a ton of moys?
Than this weak arm: discomfort guides my tongue
O Margaret, thus 'twill be; and thou, poor soul,
Of murderous lechers: and in the mature time
Our court shall be a little Academe,
her
That she is worthy, I know.
And in that paste let their vile heads be baked.
shall be to your good; for my father's house and all
[Within]  Who knocks at the door?
Most wrongfully accused your substitute,
A thousand souls to death and deadly night.
And here the smug and silver Trent shall run
Is all your strict preciseness come to this?
Let but your honour know,
From my Redeemer to redeem me hence;
I were a baby still. I love you better.
Exit
Give to our tables meat, sleep to our nights,
The worst returns to laughter. Welcome, then,
De elbow.
it to that end: though soft-conscienced men can be
Then, venom, to thy work.
Friends both, go join you with some further aid:
Which traitor, thou wouldst have me answer to.
Destroying them for wealth.
I will not be denied: sweet heart, look back.
Action, nor utterance, nor the power of speech,
afraid he would prove the better counterfeit.
About some gossips for your highness.
Selves of themselves, to your recomforture.
Nor will not. Come, bring me unto my chance.
What say'st thou, Charles? for I am marching hence.
redeem you from your gyves; if not, you shall have
How would it fare with your departed souls?
For it is none but thine!
fairer face.
Stood smiling to behold his lion's whelp
And thou shalt have her. Was't not to this end
'Pless you from his mercy sake, all of you!
If York, with all his far-fet policy,
Dost thou believe't?
Is that vile name to perish on my sword!
To meet you at the Tower and welcome you.
Sur mes genoux je vous donne mille remercimens; et
And now I find it; therefore bind them sure,
A gentleman, sent from the king, to see you.
Ay me! what is this world! what news are these!
Will I set up my everlasting rest,
In that dim monument where Tybalt lies.
That quench the fire of your pernicious rage
'Tis time to part.
Now help, or woe betide thee evermore!
'Sblood! an arrant traitor as any is in the
Which too untimely here did scorn the earth.
wear it in his cap: I promised to strike him, if he
Exeunt Ladies
O, how we joy to see your wit restored!
Nor could the noble Mortimer
For they shall yet belie thy happy years,
And we beseech you, bend you to remain
And look thou meet me ere the first cock crow.
her wax must melt.
A miracle! a miracle!
Both they and we, perusing o'er these notes,
Let our just censures
I speak not to disprove what Brutus spoke,
'Twas on a summer's evening, in his tent,
rendezvous of it.
Accusativo, hinc.
Well begun, Tranio.
Within there! Flaminius! Servilius!
Your father's image is so hit in you,
Our doubts are traitors
[Aside]  Why, so this gallant will command the sun.
And, now it is my chance to find thee out,
Of shame seen through thy country, speed
Gracious Olivia,--
It likes me well. Biondello, hie you home,
'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
art piled, for a French velvet. Do I speak
You are my true and honourable wife,
They stand at the door, master; bid them welcome hither.
I do beseech you, sir, trouble yourself no further.
That monster envy, oft the wrack
I promised we would be contributors
barrow of butcher's offal, and to be thrown in the
Which I first gave her; I saw it in his hand:
ANTIPHOLUS
White-liver'd runagate, what doth he there?
For patience she will prove a second Grissel,
This day I'll rise, or else add ill to ill.
stolen out of other affairs; but I will attend you awhile.
ACT V
LEONATUS.'
the prince be willing; for, indeed, the watch ought
beggar, they will lazy out ten to see a dead
nettle, danger, we pluck this flower, safety. 'The
But puts it off to a compell'd restraint;
Why, you speak like an ancient and most quiet
He did oppose his foe:
The passages made toward it: on my honour,
Thy warlike hand, thy mangled daughter here:
That when I am in heaven I shall desire
O, sir, you must: and therefore I beseech you
So soon as dinner's done, we'll forth again,
The day to cheer and night's dank dew to dry,
Shall cross the seas, and bid false Edward battle;
Hence, heap of wrath, foul indigested lump,
I understand not what you mean by this.
Withal, what I have been, and what I am.
That very dogs disdain'd: and in this habit
Done to me, undeserving as I am,
And desperately are dead.
Even at the crying of your nation's crow,
The crown of Tyre, but he will none:
Yet let 'em look they glory not in mischief,
My father gave my mother.
And leave your England, as dead midnight still,
I love thee.
From this enormous state, seeking to give
Hear, nature, hear; dear goddess, hear!
But you gave leave to my unwilling tongue
Than when you left him; even now he sung.
I tell thee, lady, this aspect of mine
Fare you well, boy: you know my mind. I will leave
Boblibindo chicurmurco.
Peace be with you, sir.
Camest thou from where they made the stand?
Unless to spy my shadow in the sun
Enter the corpse of KING HENRY the Sixth, Gentlemen with halberds to guard it; LADY ANNE being the mourner
Writes not so tedious a style as this.
With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
That you are so.
only receive this villanous wrong, but stand under
So can I:
For his particular, I'll receive him gladly,
For his designs crave haste, his haste good hope:
Welcome to Rome.
Give me the ring of mine you had at dinner,
Tybalt, here slain, whom Romeo's hand did slay;
Having God, her conscience, and these bars
Enter a Gentleman
The merciful construction of good women;
Well, well, I see the issue of these arms:
My voice is now the king's, my looks mine own.
I never thought it possible or likely;
Whose great decision hath much blood let forth
'Twas a commodity lay fretting by you:
And none but fools do wear it; cast it off.
The ivy which had hid my princely trunk,
The swords of soldiers are his teeth, his fangs;
When you are cloudy.
Upon faint primrose-beds were wont to lie,
What! lack I credit?
My answer back. Brutus hath rived my heart:
But come thy ways; well go along together,
I would outstare the sternest eyes that look,
Crowned in Paris in despite of foes?
I will have such revenges on you both,
What is the reason that you use me thus?
And death, not Romeo, take my maidenhead!
For here's a paper written in his hand,
Observe degree, priority and place,
That roan shall by my throne.
As thou shalt think on prating whilst thou livest!
Why, all his behaviors did make their retire
Become a dog that's mad: then is it sin
By Hercules, I think I am i' the right.
showed what necessity belonged to't, and yet was denied.
Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?
there be hacks!
a good house; and for his ransom he will give you
bid him bring his pen and inkhorn to the gaol: we
Didst thou dream, Lucius, that thou so criedst out?
Open the gates; here's Gloucester that would enter.
I may be pluck'd into the swallowing womb
My speculative and officed instruments,
front his revenges with the easy groans of old
then? Saint Denis be my speed!--donc votre est
You'll be made bring Deformed forth, I warrant you.
me, like a double-meaning prophesier.
One honest man--mistake me not--but one;
Than from it issued forced drops of blood:
And, ten to one, you'll meet him in the Tower.
found time to use 'em toward a supply of money: let
In brief,--for so the season bids us be,--
O Dionyza,
But, gentle people, give me aim awhile,
Captain Macmorris, when there is more better
And yet your beards forbid me to interpret
Murder in healing wounds: then, noble partners,
Gold? yellow, glittering, precious gold? No, gods,
Your mistresses dare never come in rain,
sores; and such as indeed were never soldiers, but
Tell him, myself, the mayor and citizens,
The one I have almost forgot,--your pardon,--
question for your residence.
Exeunt some Servants
That bottled spider, that foul bunch-back'd toad!
But I shall lose the grounds I work upon.
Sixteen at least, my lord.
Him vile that was your garland. What's the matter,
Faith, sir, you need not fear. When we were boys,
What work's, my countrymen, in hand? where go you
Have to the port of Athens sent their ships,
Well, come, my Kate; we will unto your father's
Now, if you have a station in the file,
Sits in grim majesty, to fright the world.
Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury,
On ember-eves and holy-ales;
We are very sorry for't.
Poor gentleman! his wrong doth equal mine.
For I will make him tell the tale anew,
What was that Hopkins?
Come you, my lord, to see my open shame?
My hand hath been but idle; let it serve
lousy, pragging knave, Pistol, which you and
This noble gentleman, Lord Titus here,
To win a vulgar station: or veil'd dames
preserve virginity. Loss of virginity is rational
Lawful as eating.
And then, sir, does he this--he does--what was I
Lechery, by this hand; an index and obscure prologue
His filth within being cast, he would appear
Sweet mistress--what your name is else, I know not,
There is not work enough for all our hands;
Enter the BASTARD and PETER of Pomfret
should like her? that but seeing you should love
Your faithful service and your toil in war;
A pound of man's flesh taken from a man
That I'll resume the shape which thou dost think
Put into circumscription and confine
Will cheer me ever, or disseat me now.
What is it, Timon?
And such a daughter,
Not a hair perish'd;
A father to me; and thou hast created
And not endure all threats? sleep upon't,
O, he smiles valiantly.
But fresher than before: and, as thou badest me,
Marry, sir, I carried Mistress Silvia the dog you bade me.
Exeunt
Break, heart; I prithee, break!
SCENE I. A room in the palace.
Hark you, the king is coming, and I must speak with
I wear no knife to slaughter sleeping men;
Heaven knows, they were besmear'd and over-stain'd
A daughter?
Either to quell the Dauphin utterly,
I hope my master's suit will be but cold,
As false as dicers' oaths: O, such a deed
ale-washed wits, is wonderful to be thought on. But
The plain-song is most just: for humours do abound:
Stand back, you lords, and give us leave awhile.
Two of the first, like coats in heraldry,
His cuisses on his thighs, gallantly arm'd
You depend upon a noble gentleman; I must needs
Since I have lost thee!
For one that scorn'd at me, now scorn'd of me;
more owing her than is paid; and more shall be paid
my uttermost power: he is not-God be praised and
Re-enter KING LEAR, with CORDELIA dead in his arms; EDGAR, Captain, and others following
Have caused him, by new act of parliament,
The spinsters, carders, fullers, weavers, who,
There's law and warrant, lady, for my curse.
These times of woe afford no time to woo.
than between jet and ivory; more between your bloods
Gentlewoman, my lady calls.
So that, in this unjust divorce of us,
Not, indeed:
The Count Rousillon cannot be my brother:
duke: you know the character, I doubt not; and the
yet, to crush this a little, it would bow to me, for
will. Go, go, Tubal, and meet me at our synagogue;
And then a mind put in't, either our brags
That could not live asunder day or night.
And therefore is he idle?
My tongue hath but a heavier tale to say.
As I am made by my poor lord and thee!
This world to me is like a lasting storm,
If thy revengeful heart cannot forgive,
Are confident against the world in arms.
Are you good men and true?
she herself, without other advantage, may lawfully
And for one blast of thy minikin mouth,
Contempt his scornful perspective did lend me,
But my true love is grown to such excess
And be perform'd to-night: the solemn feast
That's more
Thou mayst prove false; at lovers' perjuries
That 'gainst the stream of virtue they may strive,
Anon comes Pyramus, sweet youth and tall,
Even in the soul of sound good-fellowship,
This love of theirs myself have often seen,
care for me.
What, no more?
Then would I hide my bones, not rest them here.
An earl I am, and Suffolk am I call'd.
And will, I fear, revolt on Hereford's side.
And all the honours that can fly from us
Distinction should be rich in. Where? how lived You?
Well shone, Moon. Truly, the moon shines with a
Nay, pray you, seek no colour for your going,
My falcon now is sharp and passing empty;
She made great Caesar lay his sword to bed:
Yields us kind answer.
How canst thou urge God's dreadful law to us,
Even till unfenced desolation
How old art thou, Francis?
Discard, bully Hercules; cashier: let them wag; trot, trot.
smutch'd thy nose?
You give him then the advantage.
Nor need you, on mine honour, have to do
is basest, doth tread. I shall be forsworn, which
ear, bloody of hand; hog in sloth, fox in stealth,
I have loved her ever since I saw her; and still I
you are to depart, I am come to advise you, comfort
Unless it be whilst some tormenting dream
An thou shouldst, thou 'ldst anger ladies.
As it behoves my daughter and your honour.
Beshrew him for't!
me to wash your liver as clean as a sound sheep's
Must be half-workers? We are all bastards;
By the queen's dram she swallow'd.
O, cry you mercy, sir, I have mistook:
ANTIPHOLUS
And bring you where both fire and food is ready.
done cannot be undone.--To bed, to bed, to bed!
Exit
Are you fair?
To tell your grace, that, having heard by fame
Go with me to clothe you as becomes you.
Heaven has an end in all: yet, you that hear me,
But thou with mildness entertain'st thy wooers,
Though France himself and such another neighbour
You are merry, my lord.
Most wonderful!
Batter his skull, or paunch him with a stake,
Always reserved my holy duty--what
A night is but small breath and little pause
'Twixt sky and ground. Wilt thou hear more, my lord?
conscionable than in putting on the mere form of
stand him but a little, he will throw a figure in
Sir, make me not your story.
That ever yet this land was guilty of.
The king hath cause to plain.
A drop of blood a day; and, being aged,
This she delivered in the most bitter touch of
patent to offend; for, if it touch not you, it comes
The daring'st counsel which I had to doubt;
That I shall live and tell him to his teeth,
hands and they unwashed too, 'tis a foul thing.
Alack, bare-headed!
The venom'd vengeance ride upon our swords,
How hast thou purchased this experience?
am king of England, I shall command all the good
Your gentle hands lend us, and take our hearts.
And he nor sees nor hears us what we say.
Benedictus! why Benedictus? you have some moral in
My Lord Biron, see him deliver'd o'er:
Take heed, sirrah; the whip.
he gave unto his steward a mighty sum.
I'll kill thee every where, yea, o'er and o'er.
And tender preservation of our person,
There they always use to discharge their
You seem'd of late to make the law a tyrant;
It is the more like to be feigned: I pray you,
were you at Ilium?
For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a
What, a play toward! I'll be an auditor;
Ha! o' my life, if I were young again, the sword
But we will ship him hence: and this vile deed
As good to chide the waves as speak them fair.
Will not peruse the foils; so that, with ease,
Fall parti-colour'd lambs, and those were Jacob's.
I, that have neither pity, love, nor fear.
man to teach her that wherein she delights, I will
And she is dead, slander'd to death by villains,
Rage must be withstood:
I think there is not in the world either malice or
How does thy honour? Let me lick thy shoe.
Away! for vengeance comes along with them:
His purpose meets you: 'twas to bring this Greek
Who, all enraged, will banish Valentine;
O me, with what strict patience have I sat,
make him believe thou art Sir Topas the curate: do
Thou liest: his father is come from Padua and here
And feed on curds and whey, and suck the goat,
What, worse than nought? nay, then, a shame take all!
ANTIPHOLUS
Merry, amen. I will, sir, I will.
A merchant of great traffic through the world,
But, being over-full of self-affairs,
That grew upon my lips: then laid his leg
Dies
And time to speak it in: you rub the sore,
facility, and golden cadence of poesy, caret.
Of stronger earth than others. My mother bows;
To see him kiss his hand! and how most sweetly a'
Ever God bless your highness!
But that my heart accordeth with my tongue,
For obtaining of suits?
Before this earthy prison of their bones;
Brief, I recover'd him, bound up his wound;
SCENE IV. A room in ANGELO's house.
O, 'tis the cunning livery of hell,
O, I am slain!
Ay, and for an assault too.
How now, Horatio! you tremble and look pale:
As that of true and faithful Juliet.
So far ask pardon as befits mine honour
Useth the sparrow; did oppress our nest;
Yes, Warwick, I remember it to my grief;
Or whether that such cowards ought to wear
Exit Servant
No harm.
By my life,
'Scape being drunk for want of wine.
At a crack'd drachm! Cushions, leaden spoons,
To PISANIO
In time will find their fit rewards. That seal,
Come at my heels, Jack Rugby.
publish her; she bore a mind that envy could not but
A chain, a chain! Do you not hear it ring?
De foot et de coun! O Seigneur Dieu! ce sont mots
And father of that chaste dishonour'd dame,
Her heart is but o'ercharged; she will recover:
'Twas full two years ere I could get a tooth.
Loyal and natural boy, I'll work the means
And by an eminent body that enforced
O, God defend my soul from such deep sin!
Shout. Trumpets flourish
But she, being mortal, of that boy did die;
And though you know my inwardness and love
Which now suits with it. Whiles I threat, he lives:
Possess us, possess us; tell us something of him.
My lords, before it pleased his majesty
I had rather to adopt a child than get it.
Tell me thine first.
To towers and windows, yea, to chimney-tops,
Go to a gossips' feast and go with me;
She's limed, I warrant you: we have caught her, madam.
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse, DROMIO of Syracuse, and First Merchant
The same you are not, which, for your best ends,
Upon what sickness?
A little daughter: for the sake of it,
The cause were known to them it most concerns;
mother: every Jack-slave hath his bellyful of
You will never run mad, niece.
Exeunt
A flatterer's would not, though they do appear
The rascal people, thirsting after prey,
But then I sigh; and, with a piece of scripture,
Which I left with her?
argument? Now, if these men do not die well, it
Your death has eyes in 's head then; I have not seen
To beg the voice and utterance of my tongue--
And put it to the foil: but you, O you,
Something mistaken in't.
We cannot feel too little, hear too much.
Exeunt GUIDERIUS and ARVIRAGUS
Music ceases
Sleeping neglection doth betray to loss
Than what he stood for, so his gracious nature
Uncharitably with me have you dealt,
Get you gone, sir; I'll talk with you more anon.
To try the vigour of them and apply
Well, bury him, and bury me the next.
walk with you, and so following, but I will not eat
Nay, press not so upon me; stand far off.
Since the exile of Posthumus, most retired
The virtuous Cranmer.
Fit to be made companion with a king:
Exeunt
Peace, for shame, peace!
excellent stomach.
Mine shall not do his Julia so much wrong.
your eyes; with your arms crossed on your thin-belly
No; bear it with you, lest I come not time enough.
The bug which you would fright me with I seek.
Are suitors to you.
My lords, with all the humbleness I may,
Upon the king! let us our lives, our souls,
And bay'd about with many enemies;
I come, anon.--But if thou mean'st not well,
The fire seven times tried this:
Where Balthazar and I did dine together.
My spirit and my place have in them power
Look, here I have you; thus I let you go,
you: but believe me not; and yet I lie not; I
Go to.
Thus raps you? Are you well?
precious, precious jewels. I would my daughter
Marry, sir, half a day's journey: and I'll tell
A smaller boon than this I cannot beg
Bring us the letter; call the messenger.
What's here?
That's the least fear; for, by the semblance
Is warlike John; and in his forehead sits
Made me acquainted with a weighty cause
especially to know himself.
Having seen but him and Caliban: foolish wench!
My courage try by combat, if thou darest,
last devours them all at a mouthful: such whales
My father's goods are all distrain'd and sold,
Most true, if ever truth were pregnant by
Think of me as you please. I leave my duty a little
Cousin Abraham Slender, can you love her?
Of every creature's best!
To-morrow, sir: best first go see your lodging.
She hath not given so many good words breath
'Tis like you would not feast him like a friend;
And wore us out of act. It much repairs me
That she, poor wretch, for grief can speak no more;
Thou weepest to make them drink, Timon.
You have no cause.
I beg the ancient privilege of Athens,
Your hazard shall be made.
Call on him for't: but to confound such time,
her maidenhead ere they have it: men shall hold of
Ay, madam; in the heaviness of his sleep
By the king.
Three thousand times within this three years' space;
Let him be crown'd; in him your comfort lives:
Whom the vile blows and buffets of the world
That fears him much; and my misgiving still
Wringing her hands, whose whiteness so became them
If there be any cunning cruelty
There would have been a time for such a word.
What have we here?
her passion ends the play.
Marry, that's a bountiful answer that fits all
Madam and mistress, a thousand good-morrows.
The night is dark; light and spirits will become it
And dull unfeeling barren ignorance
Till that my nails were anchor'd in thine eyes;
Wilt thou reach stars, because they shine on thee?
I hear of none, but the new proclamation
We shall proceed with Angelo.
This purse of ducats I received from you,
Had I been there, which am a silly woman,
And that you come to reprehend my ignorance.
I am in heaven for him; or ere I could
For treason executed in our late king's days?
Mark how short his answer is;--With Hero, Leonato's
In the base court? Come down? Down, court!
not tainted! And why meet him at the gates, and
To lead their business: in which regard,
On those that are, revenges: crimes, like lands,
Away, fond woman! were he twenty times my son,
Brother, I go; I'll win them, fear it not:
We'll not be nice: take hands. We will not dance.
Is't so, indeed.
Whilst damned Casca, like a cur, behind
So madly hot that no discourse of reason,
Came in strong rescue. Speak, thy father's care,
I have used it, nuncle, ever since thou madest thy
For our approach shall so much dare the field
That fear to hate, and hate turns one or both
That womanhood denies my tongue to tell:
I might have saved her; now she's gone for ever!
live long.
And these the showers to bring it on. Be cheerful.
Once stir my temper; but this virtuous maid
than to either of these. God defend me from these
What lawful quest have given their verdict up
If it be honour in your wars to seem
For Talbot means no goodness by his looks.
By my head, here come the Capulets.
Enter PROTEUS
Farewell. Who shall answer him?
Enter LADY MACBETH, with a taper
As feel in his own fall; for men, like butterflies,
Alarum. Retreat. Excursions. Exeunt
O, would thou wert as thou tofore hast been!
The fabric of his folly, whose foundation
I cannot, lord; I have important business,
without these follies, that these follies are within
You cannot call it love; for at your age
Was that it was, for not being such a smile;
In night, and on the court and guard of safety!
He professes to have received no sinister measure
to most preposterous conclusions: but we have
Having my country's peace and brothers' loves.
Dues! Whence are you?
O, confound the rest!
May we not see him?
because it hath no bottom; and I will sing it in the
As ample as myself.
A juggling trick,--to be secretly open.
If you do find me foul in her report,
Stephano!
'Tis Hamlets character. 'Naked!
Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
Then, heaven, set ope thy everlasting gates,
If she be so abandon'd to her sorrow
To him, father.
Famous Plantagenet, most gracious prince,
Is not this something more than fantasy?
not make her husband a cuckold to make him a
And ring is yours; if not, the foul opinion
'Tis noble spoken.
Therefore, most gracious duke, with thy command
On you or yours,
then of a crescent note, expected to prove so worthy
But I do love thee! and when I love thee not,
That gnaws the bowels of the commonwealth.
Perchance 'twill walk again.
Who hath committed them?
How long hath she been thus?
Gold cannot come amiss, were she a devil.
Where Dowsabel did claim me for her husband:
ACT III
And in that glorious supposition think
Withdraw into a chamber by yourselves,
Trebonius knows his time; for, look you, Brutus.
other issue?
Will this capriccio hold in thee? art sure?
So please you, he is here at the door and importunes
And, till she come, as truly as to heaven
So says the bond: doth it not, noble judge?
Does not approve me further, who was wont
Varro's Servant	I fear it.
The Gordian knot of it he will unloose,
should have borne the humoured letter to her; but I
Long withering out a young man revenue.
grace was said.
church-door; but 'tis enough,'twill serve: ask for
of what's past, present, or to come; insensible of
What did I then, but cursed the gentle gusts
Fight till the last gasp; I will be your guard.
Now, the pox upon her green-sickness for me!
Your right depends not on his life or death.
From thence the sauce to meat is ceremony;
Bolder, though not so subtle. My valour's poison'd
If he do break the smallest particle
I like thy counsel; well hast thou advised:
I can no further crawl, no further go;
DON
Exit, above
Our noble general, do not do so.
And she brings news; and every tongue that speaks
As many as be here of pander's hall,
What's that to thee? why may not I demand
But, notwithstanding, haste; make no delay:
The cords, the ladder, or the hangman rather?
For testimony whereof, one in the prison,
They say, best men are moulded out of faults;
And free from other misbegotten hate,
Reads
His death was so effected: better 'twere
something; make it a word and a blow.
To our attempts. Am I not stay'd for, Cinna?
Which was embounded in this beauteous clay,
Or as the Destinies decree.
He proved best man i' the field, and for his meed
So triumph thieves upon their conquer'd booty;
Age, thou hast lost thy labour.
Your worship speaks like a most thankful and
if alive, I will strike it out soundly.
SCENE IV. Antium. Before Aufidius's house.
Ha' you done?
Are like invulnerable. If you could hurt,
Come, come, Lord Mortimer; you are as slow
valiant a man as Mark Antony; and he is a man of no
I hope I shall have leisure to make good;
smell so strongly as thou speakest of: I will
Her estimation home.
For I should melt at an offender's tears,
Yet must we join with him and with the lords,
O Pandarus! I tell thee, Pandarus,--
And I'll go to bed at noon.
Embrace him, dear Thaisa; this is he.
be this morning executed, and his head born to Angelo.
And we shall talk before we fight.
The mind of Talbot, as you did mistake
And thou with all pleased, that hast all achieved!
That what he will he does, and does so much
What feast is toward in thine eternal cell,
Whether thou best he or no,
O fool! fool! fool!
his goods:' right; many a man has good horns, and
And in that very line, Harry, standest thou;
Of the queen's speed, is gone.
To say my mother's name was Thaisa?
An't please your majesty, a rascal that swaggered
And these two Dromios, one in semblance,--
And such protest of pepper-gingerbread,
Under the canopy.
Give me the glass, and therein will I read.
Disgraced me in my happy victories,
Thou wilt be like a lover presently
Say, have I thy consent that they shall die?
And I    and now we three have spoke it,
If he be chaste, the flame will back descend
We'll both together lift our heads to heaven,
And sigh'd my English breath in foreign clouds,
And great Troy shrieking.
My virtue or my plague, be it either which--
the moon! A most poor credulous monster! Well
'Tis the king's subtlety to have my life.
He is my father, sir; and, sooth to say,
We would not seek a battle, as we are;
Your honour with your form.
Whose want even kills me.
Near to the walls, by some apparent sign
That is Antonio, the duke's eldest son;
Our purpose to them: and to our noble consul
Exit
you, base peasants, do ye believe him? will you
'GONERIL.'
'Tis well; and hold your own, in any case,
SCENE II. The house of ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus.
No, they are free that gave these tokens to us.
Well, the gods give us joy!
Need and oppression starveth in thine eyes,
Citizens steal away. Exeunt all but SICINIUS and BRUTUS
That thou hadst call'd me all these bitter names.
That can with some discretion do my business,
your kingly eyes: when I shall, first asking your
Was borne so like a soldier, that thy cheek
By my advice, all humbled on your knees,
Before I came. Marry, thus much I have learnt:
carry't, he will carry't; 'tis in his buttons; he
And so your follies fight against yourself.
A prince of power.
ANTIPHOLUS
Remember that you call on me to-day:
So many of his shadows thou hast met
Hark! more knocking.
Your ignorance, which finds not till it feels,
woman leads an ill life with him: he's a very
Him that you term'd, sir, 'The good old lord Gonzalo;'
An earnest conjuration from the king,
How every thing is chanced.
Your daughter's chastity--there it begins.
Rather than make unprofited return.
Nor bide the encounter of assailing eyes,
sin, then many an old host that I know is damned: if
And in a postscript here, he says 'alone.'
Exeunt
Hear a foot fall: we now are near his cell.
High emperor, upon my feeble knee
Joy, gentle friends! joy and fresh days of love
Embracing him
In the great hand of God I stand; and thence
By still dispraising praise valued in you;
With bats and clubs? The matter? speak, I pray you.
Hath she forsook so many noble matches,
Has had most favourable and happy speed:
Chop off his head, man; somewhat we will do:
So many miles upon her peaceful bosom,
Who hath measured the ground?
I know you well, sir, and you know
You cannot guess who caused your father's death.
My message must return from whence it came.
The forlorn soldier, that so nobly fought,
And by our holy Sabbath have I sworn
The advised head defends itself at home;
When mine is blanched with fear.
To the warm sun!
of his salvation, the inheritance of it; and cut the
Strike the drum.
Was't I! yea, I it was, proud Frenchwoman:
A good man's fortune may grow out at heels:
I will about it straight;
Alack, alack the day!
Enter DROMIO of Syracuse
For too much loving you.
my course of loyalty, though the conflict be sore
Lieutenant, is it you whose voice I hear?
me die, for I have lived long enough: this is the
chez les narines de feu! When I bestride him, I
France, Kate: but, in loving me, you should love
being once gone.
Wotting no more than I, are ignorant.
Their fruits of duty: superfluous branches
Are you at leisure, holy father, now;
this hour, and your son here at home, more advanced
How to cut off some charge in legacies.
None.
your reproach.
Thou hast sworn it more to me:
Vere is mine host de Jarteer?
Into a pit of ink, that the wide sea
for their sakes, more than the villanous inconstancy
And grows to something of great constancy;
And Thisby, tarrying in mulberry shade,
Money by me! heart and goodwill you might;
And she shall be my love, or else my queen.--
Why, then fly on, I'll hunt thee for thy hide.
No, as I am a Christian:
You break into some merry passion
More than quick words do move a woman's mind.
When our quick minds lie still; and our ills told us
ground of your fair mistress, make her go back, even
Bear'st thou her face in mind? is't long or round?
Next, Cleopatra does confess thy greatness;
Madam, they are not yet;
We may, each wreathed in the other's arms,
Ha, what say'st thou, Silvius?
It is your pleasure to command me in.
There was a fourth man, in a silly habit,
I shall, my liege.
How! not women?
I have from their confines call'd to enact
But that which gives my soul the greatest spurn,
Athwart the sea. Behold, the English beach
O, was she so? I must
A threadbare juggler and a fortune-teller,
No point, with my knife.
Swear by her foot, that she may tread out the oath.
With profits of the mind, study and fast.
He hath found the meaning, for which we mean
What news, friar, of the duke?
You may have every day enough of Hector
And drawing days out, that men stand upon.
are but now cast in his mood, a punishment more in
Let's see for means: O mischief, thou art swift
He hates our sacred nation, and he rails,
Stood here observing him: some strange commotion
One, Richard Earl of Cambridge, and the second,
To push against a kingdom, with his help
What though the mast be now blown overboard,
And as his father here was conqueror,
His marches are expedient to this town,
Indeed, a' must shoot nearer, or he'll ne'er hit the clout.
This bond doth give thee here no jot of blood;
Unfeeling fools can with such wrongs dispense.
That runaway's eyes may wink and Romeo
I do serve you in this business.
The kinder we, to give them thanks for nothing.
And gasping to begin some speech, her eyes
And finds them perfect Richard. Sirrah, speak,
Must I, then, leave you? must I needs forego
Sir, being his knave, I will.
[Reads the epitaph]  'Here lies a
Of virtue was she; yea, and she herself.
The Lord of Stafford dear to-day hath bought
Not to be helped,--
Those that are in extremity of either are abominable
Upon the bosom of the ground, rush forth,
thee. Thy conceit is nearer death than thy powers.
Our indiscretion sometimes serves us well,
He hath, and is again to cope your wife:
Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice;
Have not more gift in taciturnity.
An oath, an oath, I have an oath in heaven:
The will of my most seeming-virtuous queen:
[Aside]	I may perceive
That best can aid your action.
More hateful to mine ear.
And from the bishop's huntsmen rescued him;
Why do you wring your hands, and beat your breast,
He's but a mad lord, and nought but humour sways him.
Enter CANIDIUS
Impose some service on me for thy love.
After some time, to abuse Othello's ear
And of such great authority in France
The news is not so tart.--I'll read, and answer.
Enter VOLUMNIA and VIRGILIA	they set them down on two low stools, and sew
And in the closing of some glorious day
The like from him.
O dear Phebe,
Drink thou; increase the reels.
Which my despair proclaims; let that be left
All you unpublish'd virtues of the earth,
Away, my masters! trouble us no more;
And summon him to marriage. Now he goes,
O, you hope the duke will return no more; or you
Shall we desire to raze the sanctuary
Yet left in heaven as small a drop of pity
But, soft! what day is this?
Exeunt
Which now in some slight measure it will pay,
not see Pompey is uncasing for the combat? What mean
As slept within the shadow of your power
Here I have a pilot's thumb,
Believe me, lords, for flying at the brook,
Yea, wherefore should she not?
Your sister is the better soldier.
Imp out our drooping country's broken wing,
If so your heart were touch'd with that remorse
But, Valentine being gone, I'll quickly cross
time to recover.
Say, Henry King of England, come into the court.
Sir, mine own company.
He that has a house to put's head in has a good
Let me put in your minds, if you forget,
For you have seen him open't. Read o'er this;
And day by day I'll do this heavy task,
Come, go; I will dispatch the horsemen straight:
'Twill make them cool in zeal unto your grace.
I gave her such a one; 'twas my first gift.
I am sent with broom before,
Be you not troubled with the time, which drives
And mine that I was proud on, mine so much
'Remember who commended thy yellow stocking s,'--
This shoulder was ordain'd so thick to heave;
Pronounce a sentence on your brother's life:
Madam, he sends your ladyship this ring.
not see thy hand.
He doth rely on none,
As high as word, my deed shall match thy meed.
And take our leave, until we meet in heaven.
me: for the life to come, I sleep out the thought
Make that thy question, and go rot!
Out-faced infant state and done a rape
'Faith, yes, to be put to the arbitrement of swords,
I will be hang'd, if some eternal villain,
Gentlemen both, we will not wake your patience.
By this at Dunsmore, marching hitherward.
but the ten meals I have lost, and I'll defy them
And I am something curious, being strange,
To pry into the secrets of the state;
Yet nature is made better by no mean
intended fire your city is ready to flame in, with
Than is Prometheus tied to Caucasus.
To jump a body with a dangerous physic
beseech your highness, pardon me.
Shows not till it be struck; our gentle flame
Of carnal, bloody, and unnatural acts,
of good fellowship come to you! What, shall we be
The glasses of my sight! a beggar's tongue
Take up the English short, and let them know
The ravish'd Helen, Menelaus' queen,
taken with Jaquenetta, and Jaquenetta is a true
For God's sake. cousin, stay till all come in.
Her faction will be full as strong as ours.
On such regards of safety and allowance
To see a reverend Syracusian merchant,
SCENE III. A street.
We shall entreat you to abide here till he come and
'Twill make me think the world is full of rubs,
To what effect?
Good hearts, devise something: any extremity rather
So musical a discord, such sweet thunder.
But I'll endeavour deeds to match these words,
Else Paris and the medicine and the king
A sunny look of his would soon repair
then go I toward Arragon.
Enlink'd to waste and desolation?
If e'er your grace had speech with man so poor,
Thus says my king: Say thou to Harry of England:
The child was bound to the father; sir, in fine,
Now, by the world--
disposition.
And yet here's one in place I cannot pardon.
Upon the Thracian tyrant in his tent,
So it may prove an argument of laughter
O, would I were to die with Salisbury!
I have done the state some service, and they know't.
Enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
To leave a rich Jew's service, to become
Unpolicied!
This fellow had a Volscian to his mother;
Come, you are a tedious fool: to the purpose. What
Scratch my head Peaseblossom. Where's Mounsieur Cobweb?
Perhaps they had ere this, but that they stay
The saddler had it, sir; I kept it not.
What, goodman boy! I say, he shall: go to;
Commands me name myself.
fools in hand?
Egypt, thou knew'st too well
With all the virtues that attend the good,
That hath her husband banish'd;--O, that husband!
is past; it is, 'never tire.'
He does, he does: we'll be revenged on him.
And make the hearts of Romans serve your ends!
As this which now I draw.
come; methinks his flesh is punished, he shall have
Of more preeminence than fish and fowls,
Shall I be frighted when a madman stares?
O' th' other's villany?
they be true; if not true, none were enough.
His wisdom can provide. Some holy angel
And she, like harmless lightning, throws her eye
The vines of France and milk of Burgundy
With most gladness:
entertainment.
SCENE II. GLOUCESTER'S house.
And from the cross-row plucks the letter G.
Have scarce strength left to give them burial.
Exit above
I will go seek the king.
Exeunt GONERIL, EDMUND, and OSWALD
Such violent hands upon her tender life.
Enter PROTEUS
If that thy master would gain by thee,
Calls my lord?
That, like a testy babe, will scratch the nurse
Will you take eggs for money?
After your late tossing on the breaking seas?
And to that end we wish'd your lord-ship here,
remember it.
And the Phoenicians go a-ducking; we
But how I caught it, found it, or came by it,
Signior Antonio, many a time and oft
That never words were music to thine ear,
He throws upon the gross world's baser slaves:
is very well; what he has spoke to me, that is well,
I have sent Cloten's clotpoll down the stream,
For in a night the best part of my power,
At war 'twixt will and will not.
Make yourself mirth with your particular fancy,
They swirl asunder and dismember me.
SCENE II. The street before the prison.
No tidings of him?
And if we did but glance a far-off look,
To catch the nearest way: thou wouldst be great;
Yet, by your leave, the wind was very high;
Where should this music be? i' the air or the earth?
see a toad, a very toad, as see him. I anger her
The hazard of much blood.
We cannot miss him: he does make our fire,
Nay, it is true, or else I am a Turk:
The Dauphin Charles is crowned king of Rheims;
You did nothing, sir.
The last fit of my greatness,--good your graces,
throwing him into the water will do him a benefit.
Than settled age his sables and his weeds,
Be nominated for an equal pound
But why unkindly didst thou leave me so?
For ever
Therefore thy kinsmen are no let to me.
O my good lord, the world is but a word:
And furbish new the name of John a Gaunt,
Who with a body fill'd and vacant mind
I'll show your grace the strangest sight--
Thee and the devil alike. What ho, Pisanio!
And charged him with a thousand marks in gold,
Like an old tale still, which will have matter to
And my pretext to strike at him admits
To lighten all this isle? I'll to the king,
Vanquish'd thereto by the fair grace and speech
That valour is the chiefest virtue, and
I know thee well enough; thy name is Gloucester:
Exeunt
As you shall prove us, praise us.
Do you know me, sir? am I Dromio? am I your man?
Is not the causer of the timeless deaths
Would he not be a comfort to our travel?
Took her own way. The manner of their deaths?
Does now speak to thee, I embrace thy body;
Most fit for business: go make thee ready;
not Anne Page, I shall turn your head out of my
To be mine own attorney in this case.
If I be not ashamed of my soldiers, I am a soused
nor I cannot woo in festival terms.
Hard, hard. O filthy traitor!
Give me some music. Now, good morrow, friends.
time for all things.
the very wrath of love and they will together; clubs
Bear to my closet. Fare thee well, Pisanio;
walking and other actual performances, what, at any
Used intercession to obtain a league,
We shall, noble captain.
That play with all infirmities for gold
SCENE VI. London. The Tower.
yours? What's here!
Or count them happy that enjoy the sun?
you can move him.
Re-enter CHARMIAN
follows not thee: therefore thou art a sheep.
Finely put on, indeed!
An humble heart,--
art changed for Antenor: thou must to thy father,
Almost as like as eggs; women say so,
That which thyself hast now disclosed to me.
Sir, the duke's pleasure is, that you keep Costard
That quickens Nilus' slime, I go from hence
Exit
marry her: my villany they have upon record; which
O, but one word.
I shall, my lord.
Mistress Ford; come, Mistress Ford,--
To the utmost of a man, and giddy censure
Put garlands on thy head.
What would you have?
Happiness courts thee in her best array;
Be plain, Queen Margaret, and tell thy grief;
Lives in these touches, livelier than life.
And why not you?
There, my lord.
A nd we were better parch in Afric sun
And fellow'st nothing: then 'tis very credent
'Tis ten to one this play can never please
I am ignorant in what I am commanded.
What noise is here?
son-in-law's house, Sir James Cromer, and strike off
mean by that same handkerchief you gave me even now?
With all my heart. Some three or four of you
Who glared upon me, and went surly by,
Not a friend, not a friend greet
[To HERO]  Well, niece, I trust you will be ruled
from man to dragon: he has wings; he's more than a
water; not a drop before: therefore bear up, and
Enter MISTRESS FORD and MISTRESS PAGE
till you may do it without controlment. You have of
Go bid my woman feign a sickness; say
Here is a man--but 'tis before his face;
There was the weight that pull'd me down. O Cromwell,
Of who she but bid follow.
Wilt thou be fast to my hopes, if I depend on
pancakes were naught and the mustard was good, and
While I do run upon it. Wilt thou, Strato?
Sole daughter unto Lionel Duke of Clarence:
Should the approach of this wild river break,
Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of
The meagre cloddy earth to glittering gold:
No, Caesar hath it not; but you and I,
After my death the one half of my lands,
Take up this good old man, and cheer the heart
To bear his image and renew his glories!
Exit Lord
To feed my innocent people.
Pursued my humour not pursuing his,
Hours, minutes? noon, midnight? and all eyes
broke them in the sweet face of heaven: one that
Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
Currents that spring from one most gracious head,
I am no traitor's uncle; and that word 'grace.'
in her body. No, Hector is not a better man than Troilus.
Exeunt
Good night, Titinius. Noble, noble Cassius,
Give you good morrow, sir.
Thaliard, adieu!
white herring. Croak not, black angel; I have no
grace say Amen to it.
And tempt us not to bear above our power!
And after we will both our judgments join
SCENE II. Before the walls of Athens.
And fall into our rustic revelry.
You are so empty of them. Should not our father
No, sir, I live by the church.
Rely upon it till my tale be heard,
Re-enter BELARIUS, with the body of CLOTEN
paring, and so dies with feeding his own stomach.
I had it from my father.
the passado he respects not, the duello he regards
Stand by, a looker on.
Our general forces at Bridgenorth shall meet.
Why, then thou canst not break her to the lute?
Some five and twenty years; and then we mask'd.
His letters bear his mind, not I, my lord.
What business, lord, so early?
Enter HECTOR
Gower is a good captain, and is good knowledge and
Makes many Thetis' sons.
More than with ruthless waves, with sands and rocks.
to extend him; be it but to fortify her judgment,
through the most fond and winnowed opinions; and do
The mighty Warwick, and did fight for me?
How fares the king and's followers?
Seeing the body
shalt have a licence to kill for a hundred lacking
When the sweet wind did gently kiss the trees
Antonius dead!--If thou say so, villain,
Splits what it speaks: the wild disguise hath almost
Lest that their hopes prodigiously be cross'd:
Fight closer, or, good faith, you'll catch a blow.
For so I see she must be, 'fore Leontes:
Was the first motive that I woo'd thee, Anne:
if room enough!
Who made the Dauphin and the French to stoop
That I may dew it with my mournful tears;
That in crossways and floods have burial,
afternoon Barnardine: for my better satisfaction,
And, father cardinal, I have heard you say
Where is my gracious Lord of Canterbury?
That winter lion, who in rage forgets
[Aside]  If chance will have me king, why, chance may crown me,
lady: shall I vent to her that thou art coming?
And may ye both be suddenly surprised
'Tis his aspect of terror. All's not well.
If any one relieves or pities him,
would vouchsafe the answer.
And let go by the actor.
O, then it moved her.
Nothing at all; yet all that is I see.
You are gentlemen of brave metal; you would lift
Speak you so gently? Pardon me, I pray you:
[Aside to MENAS]                 Say in mine ear:
To FERDINAND
There all is marr'd; there lies a cooling card.
Will you hoist sail, sir? here lies your way.
How say you sir? Can you deny all this?
Enter MALVOLIO
Thou unadvised scold, I can produce
Enter GOWER
Tale-porter, and five or six honest wives that were
coz; for he's in the third degree of drink, he's
Exeunt ESCALUS and Provost
Between them they will kill the conjurer.
But to fine issues, nor Nature never lends
In soothing them, we nourish 'gainst our senate
Those that have known the earth so full of faults.
For my poor son.
Regent of love-rhymes, lord of folded arms,
Did see her, hear her, at that hour last night
Dissembling courtesy! How fine this tyrant
Which fate and metaphysical aid doth seem
I would have put my wealth into donation,
mouth. Therefore, precisely, can you carry your
Do this expediently and turn him going.
But by and by comes back to Romeo,
But custom what they did begin
for the time when. Now for the ground which; which,
For I must now to Oberon.
It is the lesser blot, modesty finds,
Let this be done.
Exit
Make that demand of the prover. It suffices me thou
Will give him cable.
Even then when we sit idly in the sun.
With heads, and not with hands; those whom you curse
Keep some state in thy exit, and vanish.
The time has been, my senses would have cool'd
I am determined to prove a villain
Enter English Herald, with trumpet
Here: what would my lord?
On the ground
A brand to the end o' the world.
He is much changed.
Of liegers for her sweet, and which she after,
Victorious Talbot! pardon my abuse:
Only, in lieu thereof, dispatch me hence.
The most arch of piteous massacre
Honest! ay, honest.
Re-enter TREBONIUS
It was not brought me, my lord; there's the
In dreadful secrecy impart they did;
Yet thus far we are one in fortunes: both
Let it not be believed for womanhood!
For poor'st diminutives, for doits; and let
Leontes opening his free arms and weeping
Fortune pursue thee!
And now 'tis far too huge to be blown out
Even at his father's house, the old Andronicus.
Turk, to make eunuchs of.
O, God! a beast, that wants discourse of reason,
Are we not beaten? Is not Angiers lost?
us, ha, ha?
Ill-spirited Worcester! did not we send grace,
And how she's like to be Lucentio's wife.
I have been studying how I may compare
As frozen water to a starved snake.
Why should we in our peevish opposition
Well mock'd.
And every thing that seems unnatural.
The harvest is your own.
From east to occident, cry out for service,
Recoil from your great stock.
I was the other day talking on the sea-bank with
Which He hath given for fence impregnable,
The regent made in Mytilene
How Thaliard came full bent with sin
Should with your body.
ACT IV
Is't possible the world should so much differ,
have, I am one that, telling true under him, must
Inform us of thy fortunes, for it seems
The trumpets, sackbuts, psalteries and fifes,
You nickname virtue; vice you should have spoke;
That, on the view and knowing of these contents,
How canst thou thus for shame, Titania,
In Margaret's battle at Saint Alban's slain?
Look, here's the warrant, Claudio, for thy death:
That hath so long been resident in France?
A curse shall light upon the limbs of men;
When, with a most impatient devilish spirit,
O, 'tis true.
Force should be right; or rather, right and wrong,
for my friends.
Shall I return this answer to the king?
Enter OTHELLO
Marry, here's grace and a cod-piece; that's a wise
Will't please you walk aside?
The fourth turn'd on the toe, and down he fell.
Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
With modesty admiring thy renown,
In forty minutes.
do? when didst thou see me heave up my leg and make
We hope to find you our friend; and therefore give
To say he'll turn your current in a ditch,
'Twould put me to my slipper: but I feel not
Lest, being miss'd, I be suspected of
He did: and with an absolute 'Sir, not I,'
Thanks, noble Titus, father of my life!
And if mine eyes can wound, now let them kill thee:
That drag the tragic melancholy night;
Let's reason with the worst that may befall.
Give me no help in lamentation;
fiend hath led through fire and through flame, and
live, forget to drink after thee.
SCENE IV. Before Corioli.
to dinner, sir, why, let it be as humours and
Like to a ship that, having 'scaped a tempest,
To use my wings. Impute it not a crime
To whom?
Come, let's have her aboard suddenly.
O, understand my drift. She dwells so securely on
Doth win immortal fame.
With such austerity as 'longeth to a father.
You can play no part but Pyramus; for Pyramus is a
He's quoted for a most perfidious slave,
that I might water an ass at it! I had rather be a
Disdaining fortune, with his brandish'd steel,
It is no vicious blot, murder, or foulness,
I'll to thy closet; and go read with thee
It will determine one way: fare you well.
Enter PRINCE HENRY and POINS
Hear nothing from him.
The more that Henry was unfortunate.
Who? God?
having any occasion to write for matter of grant,
And, when I am forgotten, as I shall be,
Bring forth the body of old Salisbury,
you lie.  What a lack-brain is this! By the Lord,
Hail!
An uproar, I dare warrant,
For the best hope I have. O, do not wish one more!
I'll make a corse of him that disobeys.
Of nature and of nations speak aloud
When it proved otherwise?
I'll make it greater ere I part from thee;
Before the palace of Antioch
His wife, his babes, and all unfortunate souls
Are of a most select and generous chief in that.
What reason have you for't?
you.
Why, he drinks you, with facility, your Dane dead
Good morrow, Master Gadshill. It holds current that
Come between us, good Benvolio; my wits faint.
Enter LUCIUS
IAGO offers to stab EMILIA
With that grim ferryman which poets write of,
To greet him and to give him comforts. Sir,
In saying so, you shall but say the truth.
Without the form of justice, yet our power
Here in these confines slily have I lurk'd,
Do but hear me, sir.
Unpleasing to a married ear!
We are again forsworn, in will and error.
You would not use a gentle lady so;
But Exeter hath given the doom of death
I do but beg a little changeling boy,
knew of their going to bed, and of other motions,
SCENE IV. Before the castle.
Doth miracle itself, loved before me.
To us that give you truly: by your patience,
I see that nose of yours, but not that dog I shall
Then pardon me for reprehending thee,
Have burnt that tongue than said so.
SCENE V. The same. A hall in Aufidius's house.
And here's another
'My mistress, sir' quoth I; 'Hang up thy mistress!
Clip dead men's graves and from their misty jaws
You have great reason to do Richard right;
And five years since there was some speech of marriage
SCENE V. The Forest.
To me above this wretchedness? all your studies
As if it had been sow'd. Yet still it's strange
say they are not the men you took them for.
Thy brother being carelessly encamp'd,
Our enemies have beat us to the pit:
Perdie, your doors were lock'd and you shut out.
He that hath miss'd the princess is a thing
Yet see no shelter to avoid the storm;
In delay there lies no plenty;
his horn full of good news: my master will be here
I see, sir, you have found the goldsmith now:
I will attend upon your lordship's leisure.
And food for--
Than Hector's forehead when it spit forth blood
That presently you take our way for home;
To take my life. Two of these fellows you
Maliciously like poison: but I cannot
Ransoming him, or pitying, threatening the other;
Something then in rhyme.
Now play me Nestor; hem, and stroke thy beard,
Now, sir, what news?
Exeunt
And tells us, what occasion of import
Well aim'd of such a young one.
But since thou lovest, love still and thrive therein,
A Roman now adopted happily,
How this foul rout began, who set it on;
From the fair forehead of an innocent love
I am sorry, sir, that I have hinder'd you;
Season your admiration for awhile
Of common-kissing Titan, and forget
better in your wits than a fool.
We shall have shortly discord in the spheres.
Your children shall be kings.
This man, whom hand to hand I slew in fight,
We will give up our right in Aquitaine,
Music, ho! music, such as charmeth sleep!
Like a tench! by the mass, there is ne'er a king
Well, go thy way: thou shalt not from this grove
Exeunt
Orsino.
When as your husband all in rage to-day
SCENE III. The lists at Coventry.
Pretty! What say you, Hugh Rebeck?
Provokes the mightiest hulk against the tide,
No, nor look'd on us.
Good day, good day.
To grim Necessity, and he and I
Eat, I pray you: will you have some more sauce to
Sit patiently and inly ruminate
To make that worse, suffer'd his kinsman March,
For present comfort and for future good,
Embrace him, love him, give him welcome hither.
I pray you, sir, let him go while the humour lasts.
No, for then we should be colliers.
Long live so, and so die.
But this one word, whether thy tale be true.
mastiffs in robustious and rough coming on, leaving
'But who, O, who had seen the mobled queen--'
If more thou dost perceive, let me know more;
Do not run away.
[To KING RICHARD III]
Should he sit here? This act persuades me
Benedick, didst thou note the daughter of Signior Leonato?
Ladies, you are not merry: gentlemen,
So and no other, as yourself commanded:
What is avouched there. If you miscarry,
Were not you here but even now disguised?
No, my good lord; I met him back again.
They wound my thoughts worse than sword my flesh:
SCENE III. A field of battle between Towton and Saxton, in
for the most part are capable of nothing but
And to conclude, we have 'greed so well together,
Say that she rail; why then I'll tell her plain
of my flesh and blood; he that cherishes my flesh
else being drowned, we will inherit here: here;
You smile and mock me, as if I meant naughtily.
COUNTESS
Upon our joint and several dignities.
We must not make a scarecrow of the law,
The mouths, the tongues, the eyes and hearts of men
As fits a king's remembrance.
in truth, la. Nay, I care not for such words; no,
Read the will; we'll hear it, Antony;
What, my gracious lord?
Charles Delabreth, high constable of France;
By all the battles wherein we have fought,
well as a man in his case may do: has here writ a
He is composed and framed of treachery:
Our former scruple in our strong-barr'd gates;
That framed him thus: time, with his fairer hand,
Was he not companion with the riotous knights
You loving men of Angiers, Arthur's subjects,
my niece that I cannot pursue with any safety this
A devil.
and, upon my life, fast asleep. Observe her; stand close.
Enter DIOMEDES, with CRESSIDA
Gloucester, see here the tainture of thy nest.
'Tis good we do so.
His funerals shall not be in our camp,
Be this perpetual. What says our second daughter,
That had in it a crannied hole or chink,
Enter BENEDICK
Let our best heads
time; have napkins enow about you; here
liveth, is to be no counterfeit, but the true and
Sleeping or waking? mad or well-advised?
Thou shouldst have better pleased me with this deed,
Come, your hand;
And let me have them very well perfumed
There is another comfort than this world,
Good morrow, Ned.
But God be thanked for prevention;
No more, I pray,--and he's a steward.
'Twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew
Then let confusion of one part confirm
But half my lay thoughts in him, some of these
In neither aught, or in extremity.
This shall not be revoked.
To do this is within the compass of man's wit: and
And were the king on't, what would I do?
And what he is that now is leap'd into it.
If you be maid or no?
The roses in thy lips and cheeks shall fade
places: for these fellows of infinite tongue, that
laid by, in his nakedness he appears but a man; and
But how did you desire it should be made?
Were all the letters suns, I could not see one.
Enter the conspirators, CASSIUS, CASCA, DECIUS BRUTUS, CINNA, METELLUS CIMBER, and TREBONIUS
SCENE II. Padua. Before BAPTISTA'S house.
No more of that.
Grant us your loves.
faint a number; and for our disgrace, his own
But owe thy pride thyself.
I know you are more clement than vile men,
As hotly and as nobly with thy love
With as big heart as thou. Do as thou list
I tell you that which you yourselves do know;
What is it she does now? Look, how she rubs her hands.
If we would have you.
If thou read this, O Caesar, thou mayst live;
How now, rustics! whither are you bound?
Who dotes, yet doubts, suspects, yet strongly loves!
I pray thee, let me look on that again.
tongue for saying so: thou hast railed on thyself.
What grief hath set the jaundice on your cheeks?
Farewell.
Profess'd the contrary.
My Lord of Hereford here, whom you call king,
In like manner was I in debt to my importunate
What time the shepherd, blowing of his nails,
That tide will stay me longer than I should.
What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
But that thy face is, vizard-like, unchanging,
And only stays but to behold the face
You have discharged this honestly; keep it to
And things unlucky charge my fantasy:
Cursed be thy stones for thus deceiving me!
And by my father's love and leave am arm'd
Sitting down with them
And threw her sun-expelling mask away,
Are with a most indissoluble tie
Took off her life; this, and what needful else
Is here attending: her business looks in her
With one soft kiss a thousand furlongs ere
I am about, let them depart.
What a blunt fellow is this grown to be!
I cannot tell.
It cannot be avoided but by this;
Exeunt
Our bridal flowers serve for a buried corse,
What you do
Be his own carver and cut out his way,
I warrant you, my lord.
I am aweary of this moon: would he would change!
Be-monster not thy feature. Were't my fitness
I better brook the loss of brittle life
Above an hour, my lord.
Or any groat I hoarded to my use,
His new-come champion, virtuous Joan of Arc,
Thou that givest whores indulgences to sin:
We cannot get from him.
But a hare that is hoar
To take the one the other, by some chance,
the scratching of thee; I would make thee the
Mustardseed.
Unheard. Lychorida!--Lucina, O
I doubt not that; since we are well persuaded
Address yourself to entertain them sprightly,
Although the last, not least; to whose young love
Then be't so, my good lord.
This is a brave fellow.
But that's no fault of his: we must receive him
With slaughter coupled to the name of kings.
not in the lineaments of Nature.
SCENE I. London. KING RICHARD II's palace.
Now the number is even.
As I am clear from treason to my sovereign:
course truly. If thou would have such a one, take
That I am clear from this misdeed of Edward's,
What's the matter?
Why, our authority is his consent,
It is so; the Count Claudio shall marry the
Bound by my charity and my blest order,
But mark, poor knight,
But, though thou art adjudged to the death
Led hither by pure love: which of them both
The latest breath that gave the sound of words
And maidens call it love-in-idleness.
Didst thou not hear me swear I would not do it?
Send quickly down to tame these vile offences,
In him that did object the same to thee;
Have to my widow! and if she be froward,
Madam, 'tis true; and were't not madness, then,
Her shall you hear disproved to her eyes,
This hand was made to handle naught but gold.
In sweet music is such art,
Six or seven thousand is their utmost power.
Cuts off so many years of fearing death.
Kind Tyrrel, am I happy in thy news?
To sing them too: when you do dance, I wish you
I say, at once let your brief plagues be mercy,
blown up: marry, in blowing him down again, with
Becomes the field, but here shows much amiss.
Sirrah, give place.
True sword to sword, I'll potch at him some way
your sake, Kate, why you undid me: for the one, I
A giving hand, though foul, shall have fair praise.
If low, an agate very vilely cut;
Peep through each part of him: whence has he that,
Is his to use, so Somerset may die.
Ay, but to die, and go we know not where;
And now it is about the very hour
They are in a trunk,
And our vain blows malicious mockery.
Enter a Messenger
As thieves to keepers.
No, hath not? Rosalind lacks then the love
turn another into the register of your own; that I
jades' tricks; which are their own right by the law of nature.
You are most welcome home.
He loves you well that holds his life of you.
Sweet, rouse yourself; and the weak wanton Cupid
He's coming, madam; I hear him.
Mistress Page would desire you to send her your
Fly, fly, fly! Sir Humphrey Stafford and his
Sluttery to such neat excellence opposed
For nothing can seem foul to those that win.
Under your sentence?
fools are as like husbands as pilchards are to
Can you remember what I call'd the man?
Our wooing doth not end like an old play;
Lets along.
Sir, I will.
To-morrow will I send.
Thy word is current with him for my death,
All hearts against us: Edmund, I think, is gone,
That we come short of our suppose so far
Grow in the veins of actions highest rear'd,
Framed in the prodigality of nature,
The quality of mercy is not strain'd,
So far in blood that sin will pluck on sin:
No remedy.
I shall, sir. Fare you well.
As I foretold you, were all spirits and
Even all I have; yea, and myself and all,
your sword.
I will unfold some causes of your deaths.
I have not heard examined.
No, none by me.
Though time seem so adverse and means unfit.
with half Windsor at his heels, to search for such a
[Within]  She comes to you.
No, misconceived! Joan of Arc hath been
And weigh thee down to ruin, shame, and death!
I had rather have a handful or two of dried peas.
Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,
lie,
Marry, in her buttocks: I found it out by the bogs.
Exit
Was never subject long'd to be a king
leg,--to what form but that he is, should wit larded
O'erbear the shores of my mortality,
Caesar, and companion me with my mistress.
O heavens bless my girl! But, hark, what music?
And wheresoever we went, like Juno's swans,
It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.
Should not upbraid our course. For all the rest,
And mingle with the English epicures:
Dear, trouble not yourself: the morn is cold.
The guard, ho! O, dispatch me!
Than I to your highness; who, being born your vassal,
A messenger from the galleys.
I do arrest you, sir: you hear the suit.
and thaw: it was a miracle to scape suffocation.
Bliss in our brows' bent; none our parts so poor,
No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
What devil art thou, that dost torment me thus?
well for her.
Trembled and shook; for why, he stamp'd and swore,
Try many, all good, serve truly, never
Why then, belike, he likes it not, perdy.
But, with an angry wafture of your hand,
Nay, you shall have no hat.
swears he'll turn me away.
As near as I could sift him on that argument,
garter up thy arms o' this fashion? dost make hose of
I will not fail: 'tis twenty years till then.
It is too rash, too unadvised, too sudden;
Mine is, an't please your grace, against John
it shall advantage thee more than ever the bearing
Fair one, all goodness that consists in bounty
When I from Thebes came last a conqueror.
Exeunt
Why sir, how do you bear with me?
Now spurs the lated traveller apace
Then move not, while my prayer's effect I take.
You see the poor remainder--could distribute,
learnedly handle, though they come to him by the
Stand you awhile apart;
For parting my fair Pyramus and me!
Attend the queen and us; we shall have need
And in their ship I am sure Lorenzo is not.
A deed might gain her love or your displeasure.
Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day:
Here, madam.
They are his shards, and he their beetle.
And with no little study, that my teaching
So do I ever:
But him outlive, and die a violent death.'
And his offence is so, as it appears,
'Tis so: and as war, in some sort, may be said to
Return'd so soon! rather approach'd too late:
Or all my fence shall fail.
In country footing.
As if they came from several citizens,
Almost midnight, madam.
To the worst of discontent.
The name of valour.
I have, my lord: and their intent is this:
And thy advice this night I'll put in practise.
But had his titles by Tenantius whom
I never had to do with wicked spirits:
Alack, for pity!
Ah, wretched man! would I had died a maid
That, by the help of these--with Him above
Of prey that keep upon't.
Poor fellow, never joyed since the price of oats
affection: it is past the infinite of thought.
As a tired horse, a railing wife;
I'll follow thee and make a heaven of hell,
He did, and from my finger snatch'd that ring.
'Tis catching hither, even to our camp.
Are you sure
Of that victorious stock; and let us fear
For by his face straight shall you know his heart.
By my troth, yes; I count it but time lost to hear
Thou diest and all thy goods are confiscate.
and queen moult no feather. I have of late--but
do against a monarch! you may as well go about to
Caesar, I shall.
I lay me down a little while to breathe;
That you shall think the devil is come from hell.
Enter VAUX
But what my power might else exact, like one
neck i' the combat, he'll break 't himself in
I do dine to-day at the father's of a certain pupil
If England to itself do rest but true.
I will be good to thee.
Lords, give us leave; the Prince of Wales and I
And on this couple drop a blessed crown!
That doth not smack of observation;
Lead forth and bring you back in happiness!
To be adjudged some direful slaughtering death,
There rest.
What is the matter, uncle? speak;
He hath refused it in the open court:
encountered: I hope it is not so low with him as
that I may say in the default, he is a man I know.
And dispossessing all my other parts
But that his wildness, mortified in him,
Could be so rarely and exactly wrought,
And with no less nobility of love
And bosom'd with her, as far as we call hers.
attentiveness wounded his daughter; till, from one
Whi ch, in their throng and press to that last hold,
He broke from those that had the guard of him;
To her decrepit, sick and bedrid father:
But safer triumph is this funeral pomp,
Enter SALISBURY, PEMBROKE, and BIGOT
My nephew Mutius' deeds do plead for him
You weigh me not? O, that's you care not for me.
Enjoy the kingdom after my decease.
Well, I'll break in: go borrow me a crow.
What's the matter? how now!
Tying him to aught; so putting him to rage,
Marry, he trots hard with a young maid between the
Enter KATHARINA and GRUMIO
a maid, for she is her master's maid, and serves for
But yet I run before my horse to market:
But I will rule both her, the king and realm.
tongues else for's turn.
You, gracious couple, do: and then I lost--
Mistress Ford! I have had ford enough; I was thrown
The anger of the king nor guilty of,
I give a sparing limit to my tongue.
And why not queen?
I do protest I never loved myself
commander; and that with his own hand he slew the
Those heavenly eyes, that look into these faults,
And, as I earnestly did fix mine eye
Come, gaoler, bring me where the goldsmith is:
That purpose merriment. But fare you well:
SCENE V. Gloucester's castle.
o'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there be
But I of these will wrest an alphabet
Enter LADY MACBETH
Exit
Exit Provost
your daughter.
Lay not that mattering unction to your soul,
I'ld give bay Curtal and his furniture,
Is new committed to the Bishop of York,
As infinite as man may undergo--
And you the queen on't.
The prince must think me tardy and remiss,
Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red
How did he take it? who did taste to him?
shall have all the world drink brown and white bastard.
on't: before Corioli he scotched him and notched
Speakest thou in sober meanings?
You should not have believed me; for virtue cannot
Unless that husband send it me from heaven
That looks so many fathoms to the sea
And, whereas I was black and swart before,
Hast thou gold yet? I'll take the gold thou
Your father's sickness is a maim to us.
The sort to fight with Hector: among ourselves
O Antony!--Nay, I will take thee too.
The inaudible and noiseless foot of Time
Ten thousand bold Scots, two and twenty knights,
their services; and now my whole charge consists of
Here's to thee, Menas!
Shall face to face be brought to Margaret,
Bassanio told him he would make some speed
This I must say,
I'll give you a verse to this note that I made
'Twas neither Charles nor yet the duke I named,
Neither regarding that she is my child
Both which I have had: but their date is out, and
Speak how I fell. I have done; and God forgive me!
It's fit it should be so; for princes are
And 'gins to pale his uneffectual fire:
There will I visit Cleon, for the babe
Sir, do you know me?
He was perfumed like a milliner;
They walk, and speak not
Nothing. What news?
Your passion draws ears hither.
Now keep your holy word: go meet the French,
In verity you did; my bones bear witness,
I'll eat nothing, I thank you, sir.
Will soon recover his accustom'd health.
My father came untimely to his death?
Wherefore that box?
Away, away! no time shall be omitted
As I could pick my lance.
Till thou have audience.
Thou wilt amend thy life?
Come, York and Richard, Warwick and the rest;
out of all hooping!
To train ten thousand English to their side,
Is he come?
That still records with moan; or when
contrary. O Mistress Page, give me some counsel!
It is a deed in fashion. Hark thee, Clitus.
I'll love no friend, sith love breeds such offence.
What is the course and drift of your compact?
For sorrow's eye, glazed with blinding tears,
Yourself, sweet lady; for you gave the fire. Sir
Enter BASSANIO, PORTIA, GRATIANO, NERISSA, and Attendants
Than die for this.
And venture madly on a desperate mart.
The freezing hours away? We have seen nothing;
Then should you be nothing but musical for you are
By heaven, I think there's no man is secure
Live, noble Helicane!
We have lost our labour; they are gone a contrary
A conduct over-land to Milford-Haven.
have not seen these two days.
Edward will always bear himself as king:
Which is the side that I must go withal?
O coward conscience, how dost thou afflict me!
Go thou before, be our ambassador:
and squabble? swagger? swear? and discourse
It be to do thee service.
By adding a tongue which I know will not lie.
What, while you were there?
I pray you, leave me.
Hath given me this: now gather, and surmise.
So please you entertain me.
Exit
But better service have I never done you
I am amazed, and know not what to say.
Ay, the heads of the maids, or their maidenheads;
Nay, keep your place.
I thank you, sir.
Exit
The ample proposition that hope makes
O young and noble Cato, art thou down?
Let death and honesty
Exeunt
Hark, boys.
And 'tis my hope to end successfully.
See, Caesar! O, behold,
To bear my lady's train, lest the base earth
to the ground and list if thou canst hear the tread
Cries out for noble York and Somerset,
No, Cassius, no: think not, thou noble Roman,
Witness our too much memorable shame
Philip, good old sir Robert's wife's eldest son.
the worst'?
Mine innocency and Saint George to thrive!
Here, set it down.
And then to Leonato's we will go.
The sooner her vile thoughts to stead,
Wert thou the son of Jupiter and no more
Strange that power should be. Canidius,
Sleep dwell upon thine eyes, peace in thy breast!
I heard him say, Brutus and Cassius
Revenged may she be on that hateful duke,
[Within]  What a coil is there, Dromio? who are those
Worth name of life in thee hath estimate,
Mistress and master, you have oft inquired
like the plot, Trinculo?
Sirrah, where have you been?
Time shall unfold what plaited cunning hides:
And at that time he got his wife with child:
Than keep in peace that hand which thou dost hold.
We must with all our main of power stand fast:
Patience, good sir; do not assist the storm.
Nay, truly, sir, I could never say grace in all my life.
these four Worthies in their first show thrive,
The French fight coldly, and retire themselves.
And dreadful objects so familiar
But, for your conscience?
He something seems unsettled.
Have with you, prince. My courteous lord, adieu.
Unlike the ruler of a commonweal.
honest man: and touching the Duke of York, I will
Exit with the body
Thou seest we are not all alone unhappy:
Beats down their swords
If he were mad, he would not plead so coldly:
And if thou tell'st the heavy story right,
I know not why, except to get the land.
Again; and bring me word how 'tis with her.
ACT III
And treacherously hast thou vanquish'd him,
That nothing but himself which looks like man
And Helena of Athens look thou find:
O'er-run and trampled on: then what they do in present,
But to command, to cheque, to o'erbear such
When heaven doth weep, doth not the earth o'erflow?
Had not been broken, nor my brother slain:
knavery. If he may be conveniently delivered, I
Full of unpleasing blots and sightless stains,
This article, my liege, yourself must break;
If then true lovers have been ever cross'd,
privily relieve him: go you and maintain talk with
His answer was, the people were not wont
How can she thus then call us by our names,
as my word; but speciously for Master Fenton. Well,
Enter a Captain
spoil of the city until night: for with these borne
Follow me, soldiers: we'll devise a mean
warn us!--matter, the cleanliest shift is to kiss.
thou the next night following enjoy not Desdemona,
She an attending star, scarce seen a light.
Re-enter DOLABELLA
That is all one, my fair, sweet, honey monarch; for,
Be angry when you will, it shall have scope;
Here comes the countess: now heaven walks on earth.
He met me on the mart, and that I beat him,
I have bethought me of another fault.
Strange tortures for offenders never heard of,
That calls upon us, by the grace of Grace,
Amaze the welkin with your broken staves!
Hie thee, gentle Jew.
Look on my wrongs with an indifferent eye:
the true and aunchient prerogatifes and laws of the
True; and therefore women, being the weaker vessels,
And thine, Lord Clifford; and you both have vow'd revenge
I will desire you to live in the mean time, and eat
Enter GLOUCESTER
In the church-way paths to glide:
this day to look you.
Wallets of flesh? or that there were such men
Found that the issue was not his begot;
We shall, my lord,
But thou didst kill my children.
Which our divines lose by 'em.
--Not that I loved Caesar less, but that I loved
I did, my lord, but loath am to produce
when she's fallen out with her husband. Your noble
Which makes me hope you are not void of pity.
But I might see young Cupid's fiery shaft
Applaud the name of Henry with your leader.
a trunk in one corner of it.
As manhood shall compound: push home.
Enter an armed Soldier
By south and east is to my part assign'd:
Who is't that goes with me? Beseech your highness,
come to pass, say Pompey told you so.
turned spit, yea, and have cleft his club to make
Falls into forfeit: he arrests him on it;
Till he faced the slave;
Now fare you well, good sir.
honest witnesses: If this be not that you look for,
Why, 'tis good; it is the right of it; it must be
'Tis full three months since I did see him last;
Enter LADY MACBETH
I pray you, pass with your best violence;
Propinquity and property of blood,
But we are spirits of another sort:
Now thou art come unto a feast of death,
Ay, by heaven, my lord.
of our two cousins coming into London.
To listen our purpose.  This is thy office;
comest to thy father: if thou love me, practise an answer.
With Cupid's arrow; she hath Dian's wit;
Or look'd upon this love with idle sight;
Enter LAFEU
They have sent me such a man I would have wish'd for.
DON
If ever you have spent time worse ere now;
But little for my profit: can you think, lords,
Why, now is Cupid a child of conscience; he makes
His majesty
Exit
But to the next highway, and there I left him.
You're much deceived: in nothing am I changed
child! look thee here; take up, take up, boy;
The drum playing and trumpet sounding, reenter  WARWICK, SOMERSET, and the rest, bringing KING  EDWARD IV out in his gown, sitting in a chair. RICHARD and HASTINGS fly over the stage
I am glad I am so acquit of this tinderbox: his
Amen, amen.
Let not the hours of this ungodly day
Enter Page
Merciful heaven!
And arm the minds of infants to exclaims.
So quick bright things come to confusion.
Of this strange nature that a thing inseparate
Before thy face repent!
Till now infixed I beheld myself
Out o' the moon, I do assure thee: I was the man i'
Lucius, who's that knocks?
And now declare, sweet stem from York's great stock,
What, sir, not yet at rest? The king's a-bed:
Unto the voice and yielding of that body
by this hand, I will take thee a box on the ear.
man.
sport, there should be, again to inflame it and to
Kill Claudio.
To stand auspicious mistress,--
O, pity, God, this miserable age!
Home to the Centaur, with the gold you gave me.
Such duty as the subject owes the prince
You are deceived, my lord; she never saw it:
The unreasonable fury of a beast:
Nothing!
And shall I fly? O if you love my mother,
Which of you shall we say doth love us most?
ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL yet,
better, whilst I have a tooth in my head: why, he's
Of parallels, as like as Vulcan and his wife:
Enter LEONATO, with DOGBERRY and VERGES
The law of friendship bids me to conceal;
Thus once again says Nestor from the Greeks:
[Aside]  If it be a sin to make a true election, she
Exeunt DEMETRIUS and CHIRON bearing off the Nurse's body
Follow! nay, I'll go with thee, cheek by jole.
The seasons alter: hoary-headed frosts
Had she such power,
[Aside to ISABELLA]  O, to him, to him, wench! he
To the sweet Julia:' that I'll tear away.
King Lewis and Lady Bona, hear me speak,
meant, indeed, to occupy the argument no longer.
Farewell: my blessing season this in thee!
I fear, too early: for my mind misgives
Shall I go win my daughter to thy will?
What profane wretch art thou?
Here, Peter Quince.
Thou teachest me. Minion, your dear lies dead,
Nay, good goose, bite not.
Hapless AEgeon, whom the fates have mark'd
Now show the wound mine eye hath made in thee:
Hard-favour'd Richard? Richard, where art thou?
Stop in your wind, sir: tell me this, I pray:
Why, that to know, which else we should not know.
But how long shall that title 'ever' last?
Now mingled with their courages, will make known
Want no money, Sir John; you shall want none.
To blush and beautify the cheek again.
With fearful bloody issue arbitrate.
In thy not chiding, for she was as tender
Your oath is pass'd to pass away from these.
To dare the vile contagion of the night
Which so long sunder'd friends should dwell upon:
Why so am I; we still have slept together,
augmentation of the Indies: you have not seen such
For my being absent? whereunto I never
Thou wilt be taken. Stay awhile! Stand up;
That no dissension hinder government:
Of Arthur, who they say is kill'd to-night
What means that hand upon that breast of thine?
And yours, close fighting ere I did approach:
Rough cradle for such little pretty ones!
He hath a trick of Coeur-de-lion's face;
That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
and wine and metheglins, and to drinkings and
That may be, for you bear a many superfluously, and
He is a dreamer; let us leave him: pass.
Why, then resolve me whether you will or no.
He told me Paris should have married Juliet:
Blessing upon your vows! and in your bed
It is some meteor that the sun exhales,
[To AGAMEMNON]  My lord, you feed too much on this dislike.
And at that instant like a babe sprung up.
There is some sap in this.
of losing.
Entreat her fair; and, by my soul, fair Greek,
that gown.
Diseased nature oftentimes breaks forth
And therefore law shall scorn him further trial
comical-historical-pastoral, scene individable, or
daughters will be all gentlemen born.
As that whereof I had the government,
chosen for the prince's watch.
Hath doubtfully pronounced thy throat shall cut,
And if thou fail us, all our hope is done:
Gentlemen both, you will mistake each other.
I may, and will, if she be so contented:
Whose sale is present death in Mantua,
Marry, I thank you for it; I thank you for that good
But for the sunset of my brother's son
Take thy lute, wench: my soul grows sad with troubles;
By his dear absence. Let me go with him.
Angels are bright still, though the brightest fell;
Do you know this house to be a place of such resort,
Nay, let us share thy thoughts, as thou dost ours.
I know it by this mark. He loved me dearly,
cannot come out on's grave.
I am dead, Horatio. Wretched queen, adieu!
As he began, and not unknit himself
That will forsake thee and go home in peace.
Be patient, for the prize I'll bring thee to
Far than Deucalion off: mark thou my words:
knowing what hath passed between you and Claudio.
Accessible is none but Milford way.
Run to your houses, fall upon your knees,
Under the cool shade of a sycamore
Ay, hand from hand, my love, and heart from heart.
the matter. These good fellows will bring thee
Pale ashes of the house of Lancaster!
Their eyes do offices of truth, their words
Hold, there's half my coffer.
They are both in either's powers; but this swift business
Enter AMIENS, JAQUES, and others
To do what?
Thou want'st a rough pash and the shoots that I have,
My conceal'd lady to our cancell'd love?
No better than a sty? O, see, my women,
I pray thee, Launce, an if thou seest my boy,
And when the flight is made to one so dear,
Fit for her turn, well read in poetry
No profit grows where is no pleasure ta'en:
By Gis and by Saint Charity,
The wager you have laid.
And, in thy best consideration, cheque
Hath heard your praises, and this night he means
The melancholy Jaques grieves at that,
Exit Moonshine
You smell this business with a sense as cold
What trumpet? look, Menelaus.
It appears so by his weapons. Keep them asunder:
Music within. Enter a Servingman
Ay, for fault of a better.
Well, Hal, well; and in some sort it jumps with my
Had I so good occasion to lie long
one, they will beat us; for they bear them on their
Used to command, untaught to plead for favour.
Thrives in our idleness.
Now, by my George, my garter, and my crown,--
With no less religion than if thou wert indeed my
that gives it. Let no assembly of twenty be without
Speak, Queen of Goths, dost thou applaud my choice?
Have power to utter. O, then we bring forth weeds,
Or else I often had been miserable.
What are they that would speak with me?
Thou mayst be damned for that wicked deed!
No touch of bashfulness? What, will you tear
So brainsickly of things. Go get some water,
The wisest prince that there had reign'd by many
Keep house and ply his book, welcome his friends,
Salutes each other with each other's form;
And were they to be ruled, and not to rule,
[Awaking]  What angel wakes me from my flowery bed?
Can do no service on her sorrowful cheeks.
The web of our life is of a mingled yarn, good and
From him I come
As you are old and reverend, you should be wise.
Sheriff, farewell, and better than I fare,
Now, my fair'st friend,
Shall come apparell'd in more precious habit,
My brother Gloucester's voice? Ay;
A hundred, if they'll do you any good.
And presently, I prithee.
Which hath an operation more divine
I'll give thee fairies to attend on thee,
To dream on evil or to work my downfall.
And pass them current too. God's me, my horse!
Upon a pleasing treaty, and have hearts
other her defences, which now are too too strongly
Which by my knowledge found, the sinful father
performance of your promises.
Are like to rot untasted. Go and tell him,
SCENE I. London. QUEEN KATHARINE's apartments.
And call it excellent: thou wast told thus;
And join'd with Charles, the rightful King of France.'
Why did you throw your wedded lady from you?
Upon this warrant shall you have access
The man from Sicyon,--is there such an one?
Not where he eats, but where he is eaten: a certain
Which haply by much company might be urged:
Is it not strange and strange?
Call hither Clifford! bid him come amain,
If there be one among the fair'st of Greece
the prince discovered to Claudio that he loved my
Yes, madam: yet I cannot choose but laugh,
Where Spain?
You minimus, of hindering knot-grass made;
From rascals worse than they.
Peace! she sings.
Well followed: Judas was hanged on an elder.
Of the whole dungy earth.
That virtue must go through. We must not stint
Which is indeed but sign. That you shall surely find him,
No bargains break that are not this day made:
Sir,
seven-night; and a time too brief, too, to have all
If to my sword his fate be not the glory,
Thus to mine eyes. Now o'er the one halfworld
And slain in fight many of your enemies:
I may go the finer, I will live a bachelor.
He shall not live; look, with a spot I damn him.
A trifle, some eight-penny matter.
No public benefit which you receive
And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,
Unfurnish me of reason. They are come.
Remove you hence: I knew you at the first
You would not do me violence.
you should enter, if your trade be to her.
Let all the battlements their ordnance fire:
For night-owls shriek where mounting larks
From those you sent to the oracle are come
But in despair die under their black weight.
And still it might, and yet it may again,
power that we have no power to do; for if he show us
any in Rome.
here's a simple line of life: here's a small trifle
I am thine.
To hear meekly, sir, and to laugh moderately; or to
their particular functions and wonder at him. I
This Philoten contends in skill
Stay, my lord legate: you shall first receive
And from his bosom purge this black despair!
Enter FRIAR LAURENCE
That loved your father: the residue of your fortune,
time; he put it the third time by: and still as he
Or dedicate his beauty to the sun.
This day all quarrels die, Andronicus;
Enter the PRINCE and WESTMORELAND
And my integrity to heaven, is all
Enter PORTIA and NERISSA
How lost thou them? Thy name, my most kind virgin?
You know the wager?
God pless your majesty!
come, put it on; keep thee warm. Now, afore me, a
You have conspired against our royal person,
Laughest thou, wretch? thy mirth shall turn to moan.
He loves your people
Nay, then indeed she cannot choose but hate thee,
He leaves his pledges dearer than his life:
As one that surfeits thinking on a want.
you, who is his companion? Is there no young
Adsum.
And vengeance on the traitor Saturnine.
Fair weather after you!
Enter CLARENCE, guarded, and BRAKENBURY
Well, well; there's one yonder arrested and carried
I know that we shall have him well to friend.
The Earl of Wiltshire hath the realm in farm.
Enter Servant
So man and man should be;
displeased them, as they use to do the players in
Go, stand within; let me alone with him.
For 'tis a chronicle of day by day,
It nothing ill becomes thee.
And take foul scorn to fawn on him by sending.
Great men should drink with harness on their throats.
But in the mean time he wants less, my lord.
Five times redeem'd from death: I do not know
Thou know'st that Banquo, and his Fleance, lives.
following it: but the great one that goes up the
O, this boy
SCENE I. London. The Parliament-house.
Be shook to air.
me: hush, hush!
But, like a lackey, from the rise to set
bestowed much on her; followed her with a doting
French quarrels enow, if you could tell how to reckon.
I have no ears to his request. The queen
With many bitter threats of biding there.
And so, though yours, not yours. Prove it so,
ACT V
SCENE III. A street leading to the Park.
O, in a tomb where never scandal slept,
Than would make up his message.
Which I would free, if I shall be condemn'd
Now step I forth to whip hypocrisy.
feared any, am vanquished by famine, not by valour.
But I will eat and drink, and sleep as soft
Exit
You shall not stir out of your house to-day.
SCENE I. Rome. A street.
It is a banquet to me. Let's after him,
And shining morning face, creeping like snail
How goes the field?
I knew she would.
Can tickle where she wounds! My dearest husband,
All hail, the richest beauties on the earth!--
As good to die and go, as die and stay.
the hardest voice of her behavior, to be Englished
Some food we had and some fresh water that
Either for her stay or going: the affair cries haste,
And comes not in, o'er-ruled by prophecies,
I mean, Hortensio is afeard of you.
unquietness?
But how should this man, that makes
peradventure, to make it the more gracious, I shall
My business, sir, is to the king.
Behold, distraction, frenzy and amazement,
In brief, to set the needless process by,
Lest, in her greatness, by some mortal stroke
What is't you say?
Be strong in whore, allure him, burn him up;
parting. Nay, I'll show you the manner of it. This
In a bad quarrel slain a virtuous son.
Let them have scope: though what they do impart
Now, tell me, how do all from whence you came?
to drink small beer: all the realm shall be in
I should be greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet.
Let's go in, gentlemen; but, trust me, we'll mock
May carry through itself to that full issue
Thanks, brave Montgomery; and thanks unto you all:
Without her love; for her employ them all;
They fight
cutting the web. After this, the vengeance on the
By tasting of our wrath? How of descent
There should be found such false dissembling guile?
Let grow thy sinews till their knots be strong,
Unpeopled offices, untrodden stones?
He shortens four years of my son's exile:
I will not answer thee with words, but blows.
your French heart, I will be glad to hear you
That visit my sad heart
The king hath dispossess'd himself of us:
In Cressid's love: thou answer'st 'she is fair;'
The younger rises when the old doth fall.
My lord, I rescued her;
And for an old aunt whom the Greeks held captive,
On whom, as in despite, the sun looks pale,
The setting of thine eye and cheek proclaim
Collected from his life. I'll startle you
Come, then; for with a wound I must be cured.
sport; I will show you a monster. Master doctor,
Enter FLAVIUS, with many bills in his hand
And happy were I in my timely death,
Ho! bid my trumpet sound!
Nay, if there be no remedy for it, but that you will
Why, man, he's a very devil; I have not seen such a
The queen, my lord, is dead.
They shall abound as formerly.
Deliver up the crown, and to take mercy
Go, lead the way; I long to see my prison.
And utters it again when God doth please:
come again in his affairs, unless it be to report
Aside
written, they appear to men like angels of light:
And then our arms, like to a muzzled bear,
If could speak so wisely under an arrest, I would
But the true ground of all these piteous woes
Yet all goes well, yet all our joints are whole.
Real necessities, and give way the while
Let liberty make use of; space enough
Ye have angels' faces, but heaven knows your hearts.
His lordship knows me well, and loves me well.
I'll have this crown of mine cut from my shoulders
Enter SOMERSET, with his army; a Captain of TALBOT's with him
thus dearly.
Thou liest; thou canst not.
Was aptly fitted and naturally perform'd.
Tell me, Othello: I wonder in my soul,
his company anatomized, that he might take a measure
What's his brother, the other Captain Dumain?
rarity redeems him.
That doit that e'er I wrested from the king,
remuneration I had of thy master, thou halfpenny
and altogether against my will.
hath had three suits to his back, six shirts to his
I shall not know him: therefore never, never
I then did feel full sick, and yet not well,--
it.
I conjure thee but slowly; run more fast.
All wound with adders who with cloven tongues
Enter DROMIO of Syracuse
Bid them all home; he's gone, and we'll no further.
Good madam!
My lord, he hath importuned me with love
The king! why, who's that?
I think this Talbot be a fiend of hell.
To whose high will we bound our calm contents.
Alarum. Cry within, 'Fly, fly, fly!'
Nightly shall be to strew thy grave and weep.
Saw his heroical seed, and smiled to see him,
Exit
in the world but lie, and lie in my throat. By
Full fifteen hundred, besides common men.
own appointment; even as you came in to me, her
A great while ago the world begun,
'Twas I, indeed, thou promised'st to strike;
Than when I met thee last where now we meet:
I like your silence, it the more shows off
forehead, or hang my bugle in an invisible baldrick,
Madam, this letter, and some certain jewels,
To see great Hector in his weeds of peace,
they belie her. Lie with her! that's fulsome.
And in a tedious sampler sew'd her mind:
Come to our tent till we have done our conference.
he loves our house. Let me see some more. 'The
in him, that with the mischief of your person it
Renowned suitors, and her sunny locks
Ere from this war thou turn a conqueror,
Enter SEBASTIAN and ANTONIO
How now, Malvolio!
Sir, as I told you always, her beauty and her brain
it!
Ha, ha! what sayest thou?
If the king come, I shall incur I know not
You,'--or 'I would request you,'--or 'I would
Another of his fathom they have none,
Still and anon cheer'd up the heavy time,
When earthly things made even
master in the way of marriage.
God join'd my heart and Romeo's, thou our hands;
I hinder you too long: good night, Sir Thomas.
Faith, I know more than I'll speak.
grace say so: and, my lord, he speaks most vilely
So cares and joys abound, as seasons fleet.
Doth not the crown of England prove the king?
Sir, sir, sir,--
Enter DROMIO of Syracuse
And to the manner born, it is a custom
Enter MACBETH
Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him, Horatio: a fellow
Yes, as an outlaw in a castle keeps
To taste the fruit of yon celestial tree,
My lord, will't please you pass along?
Do so, good mine host.
very merry; but yet she is not well: but thanks be
I will not yield,
That he which hath your noble father slain
Must ask my child forgiveness!
But, sirrah, not for my sake, but your master's, I advise
Is my report to his great worthiness.
Exeunt, leading KATHARINE
When oil and fire, too strong for reason's force,
Come, come, you paraquito, answer me
Walk round about an oak, with great ragg'd horns;
That they devour their reason and scarce think
I have tired myself, and for two nights together
But nature makes that mean: so, over that art
Dost thou teach pardon pardon to destroy?
Cousin, look not sad:
To watch the fearful bending of thy knee,
These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
Are clamorous groans, which strike upon my heart,
Give signal to the fight, and to it, lords!
They vented their complainings; which being answer'd,
Brief as the lightning in the collied night,
Who should withhold me?
What hempen home-spuns have we swaggering here,
And dress'd myself in such humility
That we the pain of death would hourly die
When all, for mine, if I may call offence,
I will revenge his wrong to Lady Bona,
But only, with your patience, that we may
With whispering and most guilty diligence,
Here was a Caesar! when comes such another?
'Above my fortunes, yet my state is well:
That labour on the bosom of this sphere
Be not amazed, there's nothing hid from me:
And then he falls, as I do. I have ventured,
That I can keep your counsel and not mine own.
Are of a mind; he, that they cannot help him,
The more you beat me, I will fawn on you:
My wind cooling my broth
I cannot be much lower than my knees.
supposed distress of his: it will show honestly in
My lord, when at their home
for no man's leisure, sleep when I am drowsy and
And, pretty fool, it stinted and said 'Ay.'
But stay the very riping of the time;
And thou, too careless patient as thou art,
As that which makes it.
Will you sup with me to-night, Casca?
My lord, I do protest--
Immaculate devotion, holy thoughts,
The more my wrong, the more his spite appears:
His grandam's wrongs, and not his mother's shames,
I fear me you but warm the starved snake,
I told him gently of our grievances,
I will go seek him. Cassio, walk hereabout:
dances, he has eyes of youth, he writes verses, he
Read not my blemishes in the world's report:
you before me again upon any complaint whatsoever;
And this, and this, the greatest discords be
Go to, go to.
For ever knit.
DUMB SHOW.
The chapel where they lie, and tears shed there
When neither are alive.
I hold him but a fool that will endanger
Our reverend cardinal carried.
The cruel father and his traitorous sons,
Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.
Enter a Servant
Only to stick it in their children's sight
Is richly noted and here justified
The devil.
Stand in hard cure.
Go to:
you lack not folly to commit them, and have ability
Why should a dog, a horse, a rat, have life,
When theirs are dry, for Romeo's banishment.
That's me, I warrant you.
expostulate with her, lest her body and beauty
to-morrow?
Be pilot to me and thy places shall
And all their minds transfigured so together,
Honest! good fellow, what's that? If it be a day
Stay, countrymen.
Why, this is very midsummer madness.
Let not her penance exceed the king's commission.
Nor do I think the man of safe discretion
And all the number of his fair demands
The sight of lovers feedeth those in love.
They'll give him death by inches.
To fair content and you: none here, he hopes,
Ha, ha, ha!
How now, Trojan!
You go to seek the Lord Hamlet; there he is.
O you hard hearts, you cruel men of Rome,
Enter DERCETAS and Guard
But such as I, without your special pardon,
Of thy deceased brother Geffrey's son,
With such a graceful courtesy deliver'd?
What does this mean, my lord?
Within the house, your mistress is at hand;
Certainly my conscience will serve me to run from
For none, neither.
And add more coals to Cancer when he burns
He is a happy king, since he gains from his subjects
Hath in him closed; whereby he does receive
with him! better shame than murder.
To entreat your grace but in a small request,
From firm security.
The king will labour still to save his life,
He waxes desperate with imagination.
The cloyed will,
If any plague hang over us, 'tis he.
By bright Diana, whom we honour, all
No, no; no man saw 'em.
I utterly abhor, yea, from my soul
thousand tenants.
in all reason should have quenched her love, hath,
Deserves a corner: would all other women
I that do bring the news made not the match.
When Caesar and your brother were at blows,
Shall I be tempted of the devil thus?
the painted cloth for this: your lion, that holds
That sore to ride before him to the field.
It was his word: O, he would miss it rather
SCENE V. Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
Speak softly, wake her not.
But not every man patient after the noble temper of
Fear frames disorder, and disorder wounds
Will send thee hither both thy sons alive;
Thy mistress is o' the brothel! Son of sixteen,
Good day, my lord. What, at your book so hard?
upon him, sir, a strange picklock, which we have
Does whet his anger to him.
Exeunt KING RICHARD II, some Lords, and a Guard
Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun.
The sudden hand of death close up mine eye!
Even he, madam.
He is not emulous, as Achilles is.
I do not bear these crossings. Give me leave
Made to write 'whore' upon? What committed!
Not so, sir, I do care for something; but in my
knowledge of his directions: by Cheshu, he will
Can I go forward when my heart is here?
And wear a golden sorrow.
Fie, fie, thou shamest thy shape, thy love, thy wit;
a countenance! is't not a brave man?
Make your best haste, and go not
And I, hence fleeting, here remain with thee. Away!
Sings
Tell me, thou unknown power,--
Exit
Is the great love the general gender bear him;
The ear more quick of apprehension makes;
He says thou told'st him that his wife was false:
Shall I go fetch your night-gown?
If lost, why then a grievous labour won;
Into an hour-glass: for the which supply,
To offices of tender courtesy.
A noise within, crying 'Room for the Queen!' Enter  QUEEN KATHARINE, ushered by NORFOLK, and SUFFOLK:  she kneels. KING HENRY VIII riseth from his state, takes her up, kisses and placeth her by him
Holding a trencher, jesting merrily?
And therefore certainly it were not good
Of heady murder, spoil and villany.
prove a mutineer,--the next tree! The poor monster's
Please you, I'll write your ladyship another.
though I cannot remember what I did when you made me
Patience herself, what goddess e'er she be,
Rather than so, come fate into the list.
The head of Cade, whom I in combat slew.
Snug, the joiner; you, the lion's part: and, I
Peace, ho! no outrage: peace!
the daintier sense.
And open perils surest answered.
My name is Harry Percy.
Indeed, I bid the base for Proteus.
And the dire death of my two sons and brothers?
That all the plagues of hell should at one time
These babes for Clarence weep and so do I;
Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd
What counsel give you in this weighty cause?
What can go well, when we have run so ill?
not have made him so ill, though he had been but two
And hang a calf's-skin on those recreant limbs.
whatsoever he be. Who told you of this stranger?
No, I will rob Tellus of her weed,
Exeunt Murderers
Thou art a soldier, therefore seldom rich;
Let kings assemble; for my grief's so great
Cuckold! Wittol!--Cuckold! the devil himself hath
Are richly come to harbour suddenly:
Enter JULlA and LUCETTA
to me: my remembrance is very free and clear from
For it appears, by manifest proceeding,
Another tell him of his hounds and horse,
is too soft for him, say I	draw our throne into a
strangeness and tell me what I shall vent to my
For death, for fine, or banishment, then let them
Enter POLONIUS
Enter Priest
I will determine this before I stir.
That you may ruminate.
Prithee, tarry:
You must forget to be a woman; change
Should be shut up, hear what Ulysses speaks.
Upon his brow shame is ashamed to sit;
Man but a rush against Othello's breast,
Come, Menas.
Will you two help to hasten them?
The petty rebel, dull-brain'd Buckingham,
I had rather hear Lady, my brach, howl in Irish.
You never saw her since she was deformed.
a dangerous and lascivious boy, who is a whale to
That place them on the truth of girls and boys.
because I have no power to be kind: and tell him
loves him. Heaven and earth! Edmund, seek him
With such prophetic greeting? Speak, I charge you.
And he that got it, sentenced; a young man
Lord Bassianus lies embrewed here,
son should be a fool; whose skull Jove cram with
And have our bodies slaughtered by thy foes.
And military title capital
What think you, if he were convey'd to bed,
Though now you have no sea-cap on your head.
Safe toward your love and honour.
The man that hath no music in himself,
At Pembroke, or at Harford-west, in Wales.
Cuts off the ceremonious vows of love
Whither straight I'll lead you.
Bianca's grief.
As Hymen's lamps shall light you.
Fair sir, God save you! Where's the princess?
of thought, conceived of spleen and born of madness,
cat,--but not a musk-cat,--that has fallen into the
To sports, to wildness and much company.
Enter MISTRESS PAGE, MISTRESS QUICKLY, and WILLIAM PAGE
Be it so, then:
Sits down
be looked against. Now, could I could come to her
Ha! Marcius coming home!
Before he'll buy again at such a rate:
And, when my face is cover'd, as 'tis now,
'Twas my duty, sir.
Scale of dragon, tooth of wolf,
Music
Yet have I gold flies from another coast;
I prithee, peace, good queen,
In war was never lion raged more fierce,
Say, wall-eyed slave, whither wouldst thou convey
I humbly thank his grace; and from these shoulders,
Caesar's better parts
Will cry it o'er again: it is a hint
But shorten thy life one week. And thou, fresh piece
Wooing poor craftsmen with the craft of smiles
believe: 'tis my slowness that I do not; for I know
Which did refuse three thousand ducats of me
[Aside]  Yes, like enough, high-battled Caesar will
Through whom I might command it? Come thou near.
Thou, wretched boy, that didst consort him here,
'Twill out, 'twill out: I peace!
Whilst I had been like heedful of the other:
You might have rhymed.
I will both hear and grant you your requests.
May not extend so far as to the lady:
Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE, HENRY PERCY, and other Lords
That ebb and flow by the moon.
And by that order of proscription.
it was excess of wine that set him on;
Comparative for your virtues, to be styled
Are from their hives and houses driven away.
Their own enactures with themselves destroy:
I do hear the morning lark.
Sir--I thank her--that:
Turn from their office to black funeral;
And yet, when wit and youth is come to harvest,
And thou dismember'd with thine own defence.
I charge thee, invite them all: let in the tide
By the Lord, a buck-basket! rammed me in with foul
who know it; I will confess it to all the 'orld: I
Shall stop or spur me. Have I done well?
O excellent motion! Fellows, let's be gone.
Go before, nurse: commend me to thy lady;
Is only my obedience. What can happen
I care not for thee, Kate: this is no world
If this uncouth forest yield any thing savage, I
And brought your prisoner to your palace gate.
Shall from this practise but make hard your heart:
are matched with as few good deeds; for a' never
With tears as salt as sea, through thy unkindness:
How now, daughter! what makes that frontlet on?
Flourish of trumpets
If that thy prosperous and artificial feat
For both our honour and our shame in this
Which great Love grant! and so, I take my leave.
Enter CHARMIAN, IRAS, ALEXAS, and a Soothsayer
ceremonious affection as you were wont; there's a
For that my grandsire was an Englishman,
With what else needful your good grace shall think
They fight. KING HENRY being in danger, PRINCE HENRY enters
The mind I sway by and the heart I bear
Have been as bondmen to thy sovereignty.
Breed him some prejudice; for from this league
When thou wakest,
O, that thou wouldst as well afford a grave
speed well in it, the duke shall both speak of it.
drowned; and these are devils: O defend me!
it, but he is resolute. I'll tell thee, Charles:
And begin, 'Why to me?'
To hear of it: they are about the court,
Endows a man but he.
Most mischievous foul sin, in chiding sin:
you speak best unto the purpose, it is not worth the
In remembrance of a shroud.
Might, by the sovereign power you have of us,
Here in your city; I now came from him:
Will you then write me a sonnet in praise of my beauty?
Not so, my lord; a twelvemonth and a day
How will this fadge? my master loves her dearly;
take the wall of any man or maid of Montague's.
Hubert, the utterance of a brace of tongues
A marble monument!
Should I now meet my father,
Marry, this is miching mallecho; it means mischief.
When I, that censure him, do so offend,
Under Mars, I.
From one bad thing to worse; not frenzy, not
Time calls upon's:
'Tis safer to be that which we destroy
By her, in his unlawful bed, he got
It would beseem the Lord Northumberland
say, when the age is in, the wit is out: God help
Exeunt
This gentleman, my Cadwal, Arviragus,
before would not abide looking on.
No more pertains to me, my lord, than you.
Good master Parson, be so good as read me this
Consume away in sighs, waste inwardly:
You must bear with me:
Discomfortable cousin! know'st thou not
a-birding; she desires you once more to come to her
SCENE II. Another room in the castle.
friend here in necessity and denying him; and for
O, cry your mercy, sir.
Take wreak on Rome for this ingratitude,
Pardon me, Caesar; for my dear dear love
Is valiant, and dejected; and, by starts,
Struck pale and bloodless; and thy brother, I,
What is the matter
Farewell, dear father!
particular prosperity, and love thee no worse than
In carrion-flies than Romeo: they my seize
From another one?
And cleave to no revenge but Lucius.
And that supposed by the common rout
I come from the worthy Achilles,--
Alarum. Enter FALSTAFF, solus
know not myself, he would never have boarded me in this fury.
You are my guests: do me no foul play, friends.
First, what is your place?
ANTIPHOLUS
An end, sir; to your business. Give Helen this,
The wanton stings and motions of the sense,
Hark, Perdita
hell for swearing to gentlemen my friends, you were
A match! 'tis done.
proclaimed. All offices are open, and there is full
How would you live, Pompey? by being a bawd? What
What mean you, Caesar? think you to walk forth?
It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.
Let me bear another to his horse; for that's the more
That you do see? could thought, without this object,
This stage the ship, upon whose deck
Let me not hear you speak of Mortimer:
I will not to wedding with thee.
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, attended
Black-Monday last at six o'clock i' the morning,
To break the vow I am engaged in;
I have great matters to impart to thee.
And for we think the eagle-winged pride
The shot of accident, nor dart of chance,
For a small vice.
I swear again, I would not be a queen
thou findest him: I would we were well rid of this
Pardon, guest-justice. A word, Mounseur Mockwater.
Upon a parchment, and against this fire
Qualm, perhaps.
They are beaten, sir, and our advantage serves
Though the great bulk Achilles be thy guard,
Servant-monster! the folly of this island! They
What my tongue dares not, that my heart shall say.
Enter two Sailors
Thurio, give back, or else embrace thy death;
The blushes in my cheeks thus whisper me,
If fairings come thus plentifully in:
Would I perform, if I might have my will;
As I have spoken for you all my best
As if his foot were on brave Hector's breast
Fain would I go to chafe his paly lips
Enter DON PEDRO, DON JOHN, LEONATO, FRIAR FRANCIS, CLAUDIO, BENEDICK, HERO, BEATRICE, and Attendants
More pregnantly than words. Yet you do well
She came from Libya.
That paper in your hand?
Well, see to live; I will not touch thine eye
They do abuse the king that flatter him:
I am Christophero Sly; call not me 'honour' nor
Are we all ready? What is now amiss
and free him.
I prithee, take thy fingers from my throat;
entertainment than yours. You are welcome: but my
Of what a monarchy you are the head:
birding-pieces. Creep into the kiln-hole.
thousand watches.
something: but I make my wager rather against your
To be revenged upon her. For when fools Shall--
though this knave came something saucily into the
It is a reeling world, indeed, my lord;
Enter CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and TRINCULO
Of that self-blood that first gave life to you,
He does: he did appoint so.
Each buzz, each fancy, each complaint, dislike,
Exit
cure of the thing you wot of, unless they kept very
How didst thou know 'twas she? O she deceives me
And then he drew a dial from his poke,
A lover may bestride the gossamer
Besides, our hands are hard.
When the compulsive ardour gives the charge,
Making you ever better than his praise
not, that you are not the Jew's daughter.
So that perforce you must needs stay a time.
This is most certain that I shall deliver:
Go; I'll to dinner: hie you to the cell.
And sing our bondage freely.
By the wrongs I suffer and the blows I bear.
Then stir Demetrius up with bitter wrong;
Truly, sir, in respect of a fine workman, I am but,
ACT II
Enter, from thence, LYSIMACHUS and Lords; with the Gentlemen and the two Sailors
Besides, all French and France exclaims on thee,
Prevented from a damned enterprise:
Certain: Alcibiades reports it; Phrynia and
That keep this dreadful pother o'er our heads,
O day untowardly turned!
To cheque their folly, passion's solemn tears.
You took the moon at full, but now she's changed.
Form'd by the eye and therefore, like the eye,
Plead a new state in thy unrivall'd merit,
They say he cried out of sack.
I thank your majesty, and her, my lord:
That go or tarry.
Sad sighs, deep groans, nor silver-shedding tears,
I have o'erheard a plot of death upon him:
knock me well, and knock me soundly'? And come you
what's the matter?
endure my Lady Tongue.
The heads of Brocas and Sir Bennet Seely,
We have record that very well it can,
SCENE I. LEONATO'S garden.
I'ld say I had eyes again!
If thy rare qualities, sweet gentleness,
What pace is this that thy tongue keeps?
Then go we near her, that her ear lose nothing
But yet my caution was more pertinent
His mistress' picture; which by his tongue
Towards Ludlow then, for we'll not stay behind.
I hope, sir, I have your good will to have mine own
The greatest miracle that e'er ye wrought:
Whither go you, George? Hark you.
Cannot make better note.
So much for this, sir: now shall you see the other;
For me, be you thoughten
I will bring in the empress and her sons,
Ay; and as idle as she may hang together, for want
I'll prove it on thy heart,
Whom should we match with Henry, being a king,
Sea-nymphs hourly ring his knell
I will have it no lay.
be patient; there is no fettering of authority.
Re-enter HORATIO, with OPHELIA
strangest mind i' the world; I delight in masques
love; with your hat penthouse-like o'er the shop of
'Tis figured in my tongue.
conscience, now, is it not?
Which will become you both, farewell.
unstanched wench.
In our well-found successes, to report
Happy, indeed, as we have spent the day.
Hanging is the word, sir: if
Burst smilingly.
Thus do I ever make my fool my purse:
We will ourselves provide:
She's, like a liar, gone to burning hell:
No, noble Ajax; you are as strong, as valiant, as
Why not by the hand, sir? How have I offended?
With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
Then plainly know my heart's dear love is set
Exeunt
O, were that all! I think not on my father;
Unknown to woman, never was forsworn,
These news, my lord, may cheer our drooping spirits:
scurrility, witty without affection, audacious without
What, in our house?
Why he's a devil, a devil, a very fiend.
Which I'll lay down.
Of all complexions the cull'd sovereignty
Beshrew me, I would,
That we with wisest sorrow think on him,
Out, fool! I forgive thee for a witch.
SCENE II. Friar Laurence's cell.
leave to in the crop; if I be his cuckold, he's my
Exeunt
never bring them to light: would he were returned!
hath got, as I take it, an ague. Where the devil
No; but she is an earthly paragon.
O, 'tis an accident that heaven provides!
Will either of you bear me a challenge to him?
Cannot with safety cast him, for he's embark'd
And leave them honeyless.
Mightst thou perceive austerely in his eye
It is your husband mock'd you with a husband.
To make conditions.
Thou see'st these lovers seek a place to fight:
To whom, my lord?
We are the queen's abjects, and must obey.
Even now forsake me, and of all my lands
Deny to speak with me? They are sick? they are weary?
Here is the cap your worship did bespeak.
I am bound to you:
Let him know't.
To any living creature: believe me, la,
And that the people of this blessed land
How! wear the garland! dost thou mean the crown?
Pray heaven, he sound not my disgrace! For certain,
Bonos dies, Sir Toby: for, as the old hermit of
And left thee but a very prey to time;
Till we assign you to your days of trial.
Exit MOTH
sounder all the next day.
Keep him out.
Whose shouts and claps out-voice the deep mouth'd sea,
I go, I go.
O learned judge! Mark, Jew: a learned judge!
By heaven, that should be my handkerchief!
To teeming foison, even so her plenteous womb
Anon, sir. Pray stay a little, my lord.
Seats her by him
Mad and fantastic execution,
And shrieks like mandrakes' torn out of the earth,
To let the troop pass fairly; or I'll find
Prithee, fellow, remember my name is Menenius,
It is our trick; nature her custom holds,
Into what dangers would you lead me, Cassius,
sin, and sin is damnation. Thou art in a parlous
think, to liberty: yet am I better
Exeunt AENEAS and Trojans
So do I wish the crown, being so far off;
Why, thou whoreson ass, thou mistakest me.
Or the reputed son of Coeur-de-lion,
For all the mud in Egypt: have you heard it?
want not, time and place will be fruitfully offered.
virtuous, there shall be no more cakes and ale?
she will find the error of her choice: she must
As this is false he burdens me withal!
The news is, sir, the Volsces are in arms.
should speak truth of it: here it is, and all that
By yea and nay, sir, then I swore in jest.
reason why thou shouldst be so superfluous to demand
the young man, he would have been horn-mad.
Here feel we but the penalty of Adam,
Now, master sheriff, what is your will with me?
We are the Jasons, we have won the fleece.
Ay, fool; is that a shame? Note but this fool.
oftener ask forgiveness.
Ay, see the bishop be not overborne.
Which is so serious. Let us bury him,
How ill agrees it with your gravity
To rouse his wrongs and chase them to the bay.
The vaporous night approaches.
Give mine the benefit of seniory,
question asked him by any of the senators, but they
Nerissa teaches me what to believe:
That many have and others must sit there;
O, let me live!
Whom thou didst banish; and--which more may
Following the signs, woo'd but the sign of she.
His grace not being warn'd thereof before:
To give our hearts united ceremony.
All continent impediments would o'erbear
Made a foul blot; if tall, a lance ill-headed;
Fie, fie upon her!
Neglected, rather;
would have suspected an ambush where I was taken?
Soldier, thou art: but his whole action grows
'Tis too much proved--that with devotion's visage
On one part and on the other? Take it, God,
It is our pleasure one of them depart;
Exeunt
The canon of the law is laid on him,
wedding-day at night.
But, I pray you, let none of your people stir me: I
Now fills thy sleep with perturbations
What will you do, good grey-beard? break a lance,
When it was less expected: he replied,
You are a Roman, are you?
And thus thy fall hath left a kind of blot,
Enter LEONATO, ANTONIO, BENEDICK, BEATRICE, MARGARET, URSULA, FRIAR FRANCIS, and HERO
And I will take up that with 'Give the devil his due.'
For eighteen months concluded by consent.
A precious thing: I had it from the queen.
Enter WARWICK, CLARENCE, OXFORD, SOMERSET, and French soldiers, silent all
What's past and what's to come is strew'd with husks
Most hungerly on your sight.
Aboard my galley I invite you all:
You that choose not by the view,
Let's levy men, and beat him back again.
In the preferment of the eldest sister.
You may to me: and 'tis most meet you should.
slaughter'd,
Thou shalt get kings, though thou be none:
Those wits, that think they have thee, do very oft
Didst thou at first, to flatter us withal,
Ay, and to wage this battle at Pharsalia.
Me, uncle?
Holla, you clown!
'Poor deer,' quoth he, 'thou makest a testament
My liege, here is the strangest controversy
Shalt break into corruption: thou shalt think,
her and ill-thought on of you; gone between and
Enter CLARENCE and BRAKENBURY
That makes thee strangle thy propriety:
Alack, the king!
Nor none that live, I hope.
He bids you name your griefs; and with all speed
Since thou dost seek to kill my name in me,
You have obtain'd it.
I never saw
His youngest daughter, beautiful Binaca,
And, with her fellow maids is now upon
Pray, chuck, come hither.
marvellous infection to the little page; and truly
Put in her tender heart the aspiring flame
Of quick, cross lightning? to watch--poor perdu!--
O, kill me too!
To take the basest and most poorest shape
If, in thy wisdom, thou canst give no help,
What, ho! Abhorson! Where's Abhorson, there?
Jove sometimes went disguised, and why not I?
O my liege,
I did think thee, for two ordinaries, to be a pretty
I give thee thanks in part of thy deserts,
Is it but this,--a tardiness in nature
But by example--O, a sin in war,
be won at last;
half that they do: but this is most fallible, the
Hold, there is forty ducats: let me have
To know our enemies' minds, we'ld rip their hearts;
That which shall break his neck or hazard mine,
O, let me have no subject enemies,
thus; and then the people fell a-shouting.
That to the use of actions fair and good
All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past,
And, brother York, thy acts in Ireland,
May readily be stopp'd.
How near the tidings of our comfort is.
Most venerable worth, did I devotion.
Let me speak like yourself, and lay a sentence,
Enter a Servant
And let it answer every strain for strain,
And what is 'a stone,' William?
Why, what is it, my lord?
Soft! who comes here?
This is the king's ring.
To hear the men deny't. So that, I say,
mother played false with a smith.
Is stopp'd with dust; the first of April died
whole sex withal.
And I, I hope, shall reconcile them all.
Uncle, what shall we say to this in law?
To requite me, by making rich yourself.
of thousands to be paid from the Sophy.
What say you to this, sir?
'Tis not well mended so, it is but botch'd;
were as good crack a fusty nut with no kernel.
And know how well I have deserved the ring,
What with the sickness of Northumberland,
To stir men's blood: I only speak right on;
Success and conquest to attend on us.
I humbly thank your highness.
Have fill'd their pockets full of pebble stones
My father's of a better nature, sir,
He shall again relate.
Why, sir, he comes not.
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
Ay, for the state, not for Antonio.
If I may ever know thou dost but sigh
and ceremony: let me comply with you in this garb,
Springs out into fast gait; then stops again,
Great men have reaching hands: oft have I struck
Then you must undertake to slander him.
To buy his will, it would not seem too dear,
If you please,
At her life's rate.
I would I were a Roman; for I cannot,
My medicine, work! Thus credulous fools are caught;
Amongst this princely heap, if any here,
Of thine affairs, as well as thou of mine?
With dry convulsions, shorten up their sinews
Doth he still rage?
Of these supposed-evils, to give me leave,
Those articles, my lord, are in the king's hand:
Of grave and austere quality, tender down
[Reads]  'The sleeves curiously cut.'
In base appliances. This outward-sainted deputy,
Enwheel thee round!
That tempts most cunningly: but be not tempted.
Good Master Fabian, grant me another request.
shall ne'er weigh more reasons in her balance: nay,
Holds such an enmity with blood of man
officious; for I am proof against that title and
My fair rose wither: yet look up, behold,
You see we do, yet see you but our hands
Save back to England, all the world's my way.
My liberty.
Her sister Katharina welcomed you withal?
With all kind love, good thoughts, and reverence.
of gold for thee: if the gentlewoman that attends
Whether to knock against the gates of Rome,
But, room, fairy! here comes Oberon.
SCENE I. A street in Westminster.
That yet looks on me, or would know me Ariel,
In your despite, upon your purse? Revenge it.
I am debating of my present store,
That covenants may be kept on either hand.
Doing displeasure to the citizens
A fault on us, your tribunes; that we laboured,
I never look'd for better at his hands,
ANTIPHOLUS
Account me not your servant.
By some, that know not why he is away,
murderer dead,
I have possess'd you with and think them strong;
But had he died in the business, madam; how then?
Enter Messenger and TALBOT
wrong a Jew, what should his sufferance be by
This night's great business into my dispatch;
that he shall go.
End in a word: such is the breath of kings.
In each thing give him way, cross him nothing.
I like it well. France, shall we knit our powers
to Angelo: if for this night he entreat you to his
Hath beat down Menon: bastard Margarelon
To do in slander. And to behold his sway,
Exit
You'll have enough.
And to become the geck and scorn
Have to the full appeach'd.
that your senses, unintelligent of our insufficience,
Gremio, 'tis now no time to vent our love:
The Song
Cupid is no longer an archer: hi s glory shall be
What speech, my lord?
Indeed, she's a most fresh and delicate creature.
Impose me to what penance your invention
They may, 'cum privilegio,' wear away
Richard, I bear thy name; I'll venge thy death,
Portia, forgive me this enforced wrong;
Bring me but to the very brim of it,
Which shall be either to this gentleman
With riotous feeders, when our vaults have wept
Of ever angry bears: it was a torment
an I were not a very coward, I'ld compel it of you:
No, I warrant you; for a fools will shame it.
Flourish
'Tis wondrous strange, the like yet never heard of.
If it be made of penetrable stuff,
at the temple, and there, before the whole
Some fair excuse.
explication; facere, as it were, replication, or
That comes before his eye. This is a practise
To AEmilius
Answer'd neglectingly I know not what,
Till then in blood by noble Percy lie.
How well this yielding rescues thee from shame!
Most power to do most harm, least knowing ill;
Then how can it be said I am alone,
Put forth disorder'd twigs; her fallow leas
Did ere solicit, or my hand subscribe
Your grace shall well and quietly enjoy.
As the main point of this our after-meeting,
The king is angry: see, he bites the lip.
Enter SNUG
A virgin from her tender infancy,
And the compact is firm and true in me.
With nightly tears and daily heart-sore sighs;
Call't not a plot:
With sweet musk-roses and with eglantine:
That I am pretty.
thing handsome about him. Bring him away. O that
Abhorred slave,
Or rather say, the cause of this defect,
Indeed, they say the senators tomorrow
Of many thousand kisses the poor last
O,
Sir, there's a barge put off from Mytilene,
What, marry, may she?
Therefore farewell; I see thou know'st me not.
O villain!
But will my Rosalind do so?
But, peace! for from broad words and 'cause he fail'd
Princely shall be thy usage every way.
He will repent the breadth of his great voyage;
Hail to you both!
be sad. Did he not say, my brother was fled?
knowest well enough, although thou comest to me,
A lullaby too rough: I never saw
Who can bring noblest minds to basest ends!
I would his troubles likewise were expired,
Sirrah, go see what trumpet 'tis that sounds:
And danger serves among then!
Here by the cheeks I'll drag thee up and down.
know Anne's mind for that: never a woman in Windsor
To bide upon't, thou art not honest, or,
SCENE VII. Another part of the field.
drunk, yet I am not altogether an ass.
lies the jest.
Like boys unto a muss, kings would start forth,
I will come last. 'Tis like he'll question me
despair not.
What say you to't?
His son am I; deny it, if you can.
For which live long to thank both heaven and me!
The key whereof myself have ever kept;
Loud 'larums, neighing steeds, and trumpets' clang?
But cheer thy heart, and be thou not dismay'd:
'Long all of Somerset and his delay.
I pray thee, moralize them.
What the devil art thou?
I feel too much thy blessing: make it less,
Throwing down a glove
The best in this kind are but shadows; and the worst
Lovel and Ratcliff, look that it be done:
Call for our chiefest men of discipline,
A thousand times the worse, to want thy light.
Or gather wealth, I care not, with what envy:
Ay, if yourself's remembrance wrong yourself.
What will become of me now, wretched lady!
beguile Nature of her custom, so perfectly he is her
We do.
New widows howl, new orphans cry, new sorrows
most sage demoiselle dat is en France.
Exeunt Knights
Your hearts I'll stamp out with my horse's heels,
Never to woo her no more, but do forswear her,
She's with the lion deeply still in league,
And to our dear friend Banquo, whom we miss;
home; there's part of a power already footed: we
That make her good? O, let her brother live!
Why, then, this may be yours, for this is but one.
Nay, he is your brother by the surer side,
Their brave pavilions: Priam's six-gated city,
This cannot be,
'Shall'!
My good knave Eros, now thy captain is
But how prevail'd you?
See it so grossly shown in thy behaviors
And you, monarch!
The word, 'Lux tua vita mihi.'
Which he to seek of me again, perforce,
We'll none of him; but let him, like an engine
Exit Gentleman
And certainly in strange unquietness.
believe thee,
This earth of majesty, this seat of Mars,
these strip you out of your lieutenantry, it had
fortunes against any lay worth naming, this
Keep in your bosom: yet remain assured
The interruption of their churlish drums
And he may fetch him.
Half the heart of Caesar, worthy Mecaenas! My
Now is the winter of our discontent
But mad in craft. 'Twere good you let him know;
I have heard the Frenchman hath good skill in
To FLAVIUS
it, there is not one so young and so villanous this
No marrying 'mong his subjects?
yet it is necessary. An old sheep-whistling rogue a
Enter PERICLES with Attendants
your people,
Of Birnam rise, and our high-placed Macbeth
pronounced:
And weep ye now, seeing she is advanced
Come, away!
Dismissing half your train, come then to me:
will be considered.
Dost thou hear me, old friend; can you play the
A letter was deliver'd to my hands,
Let there be the same net spread for her; and that
Of place 'tween high and low. Our foe was princely
Read.
I may have liberty to venge this wrong;
Sleepest or wakest thou, jolly shepherd?
The impression of keen whips I'ld wear as rubies,
That him and his they in his palace burn;
Would, with themselves, shut up my thoughts: I find
About his funeral: and you shall speak
Grandam, his nurse.
For England, cousin, go:
filled up with guts and midriff. Charge an honest
Were testimonies against his worth and credit
There lies the substance: and I thank thee, king,
How wert thou handled being prisoner?
Than I will wrong such honourable men.
Thou didst accuse him of incontinency;
Poor Desdemona! I am glad thy father's dead:
Farewell; adieu.
SCENE IV. Another part of the field.
the like occasion whereon my services are now on
When returns Cranmer?
dost thou mean? Is it a world to hide virtues in?
A serpent that will sting thee to the heart.
way; old Windsor way, and every way but the town
Exit TITANIA with her train
But thou must needs be sure
Because he is protector of the realm,
Live with authority: so soon we shall drive back
With fervency drew up.
Will you permit that I shall stand condemn'd
Exeunt
All guiltless, meet reproach. What, ho! my lord!
Come current for an accusation
A stranger to thy thoughts.
I have a roisting challenge sent amongst
For fear we wake her: softly, gentle Patience.
Unless, by not so doing, our good city
By day's approach look to be visited.
Fortune and victory sit on thy helm!
occasion will rob you of a great deal of patience:
To envelop and contain celestial spirits.
Fauste, precor gelida quando pecus omne sub umbra
I am a woeful suitor to your honour,
Or rather swaying more upon our part
cudgel, and twenty pounds of money, which must be
My name be blotted from the book of life,
He'll stay my lord.
Enter VALENTINE
O, I were damn'd beneath all depth in hell,
Rosaline, by good hap.
SCENE VI. Dunsinane. Before the castle.
Ay, there's the question; but I say, 'tis true:
As for the brat of this accursed duke,
Till bones and flesh and sinews fall away,
Life perfect honour.
That's bitter to sweet end.
is called the Reproof Valiant. If again 'it was not
cannot tell how to term it.
Exit THYREUS
Let in that amity which you have made;
Stabs KING CLAUDIUS
the guiltiness of my mind, the sudden surprise of my
First, that, without the king's assent or knowledge,
lost hair of another man.
Made him a man; and though thou livest and breathest,
As I wear mine, are titles but of scorn.
SONG
besides, you grow dishonest.
Than you have heard him brag to you he will.
As time and our concernings shall importune,
rightly but one who shall rightly love. But what
The patterns that by God and by French fathers
Nor yoke with him for tribune.
Our city's institutions, and the terms
arms and heads, chopped off in battle, shall join
Sir?
Many receipts he gave me: chiefly one.
And fightest with the sword of Deborah.
To your proceedings? do not seek to stuff
Enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
Costly apparel, tents, and canopies,
He tells you rightly.
and leave her in such honour as you have trust in,
my good friends, deserved at the hands of fortune,
Where thou thyself dost air;--the queen o' the sky,
To give the heir and daughter of Lord Scales
I follow'd that I blush to look upon:
Is to himself--I will not say how true--
[Aside]        'Twere false, if I should speak it;
baggage would but give way to customers.
And brave attendants near him when he wakes,
Like to Lysander sometime frame thy tongue,
And with our sprightly port make the ghosts gaze:
I am beloved of beauteous Hermia:
Lord, I'll stab thee.
What shall be done, sir, with the groaning Juliet?
Yes, Helen, you might be my daughter-in-law:
A fire from heaven came and shrivell'd up
To prison with her: and away with him.
established proclaimed edict and continent canon,
Most certain.
Faith, none, but Humphrey Hour, that call'd
We will do it: let him be sent for to-morrow,
What is this
But thou slew'st Tybalt; there are thou happy too:
What are these faces?
Get me a ladder.
And buy it with your gold right suddenly.
Yes, if it please your majesty.
Exeunt OTHELLO and DESDEMONA
That sits in heart-grief and uneasiness
Why, so I do. Good Portia, go to bed.
None but friends: say boldly.
I have well approved it, sir. I drunk!
I prithee, speak; we will not trust our eyes
For peace itself should not so dull a kingdom,
Give me a note: your ladyship can set.
Sweet ornament that decks a thing divine!
saw.
That do demonstrate thinly.
They shall be no more than needful there, if they
Each way, to better yours.
Shall we go see the reliques of this town?
Nay, I will give thee a kiss: now pray thee, love, stay.
Dies
Enter to them, MENENIUS
Lychorida, our nurse, is dead:
The open ear of youth doth always listen;
and hose. I'll go hide me.
Go on: right royal.
And brief, good mother; for I am in haste.
And once more in mine arms I bid him welcome,
Peace! let us hear what Antony can say.
The gold I gave to Dromio is laid up
What is he that builds stronger than either the
Deliver'd, by the holy gods,
Base men by his endowments are made great.
And so should you.
My heart is heavy and mine age is weak;
Study to break it and not break my troth.
To make of him a formal man again:
And that no woman has; nor never none
Or else committ'st thy knaveries wilfully.
[Aside to NESTOR]  And how his silence drinks up
As precious eyesight, and did value me
For what hath broach'd this tumult but thy pride?
I'll bear him no more sticks, but follow thee,
Whereof by parcels she had something heard,
points in the which women still give the lie to
And men have lost their reason. Bear with me;
Dies
But where was this?
In his own grace he doth exalt himself,
In bringing them to civil discipline,
Bring in our daughter, clothed like a bride,
To dusty nothing, yet let memory,
I did, Sir Thomas: and left him at primero
One minded like the weather, most unquietly.
Hop forty paces through the public street;
We'll wait upon your lordship.
Of all the trades in Rome. Look, I am going:
Ere the first sacrifice, within this hour,
understand, the greater file of the subject held the
Signior Benedick.
'the croaking raven doth bellow for revenge.'
How furious and impatient they be,
Ay, sir.
Kind and dear princess!
To tell us this.
He is not very tall; yet for his years he's tall:
SCENE VII. Field of battle between the camps.
As I have to be hurt. O gull! O dolt!
What, in my sight? Bianca, get thee in.
The shapes of beasts upon them: Jupiter
I fear these stubborn lines lack power to move:
[Aside]  I knew her well; she was a midwife.
So to the laws at large I write my name:
I pluck this pale and maiden blossom here,
marriage binds and blood breaks: a poor virgin,
Dead, then?
time of lethargy I picked and cut most of their
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  Ay, where thou darest
The causes of their death appear, unto
soul of this man is his clothes. Trust him not in
Would have him wed again.
It hath already publicly been read,
To plague thee for thy foul misleading me.
But, as you will not wed, I'll pardon you:
A warrant for his execution.
present the princess, sweet chuck, with some
Your hand, your tongue: look like the innocent flower,
Who knows the lord protector's mind herein?
And of buxom valour, hath, by cruel fate,
Yet Caesar shall go forth; for these predictions
Words to the heat of deeds too cold breath gives.
With this most tender air.
Has broken a staff or so; so let it pass.
SCENE VII. Verona. JULIA'S house.
Exit
Have I not in my time heard lions roar?
As chaste as is the bud ere it be blown;
Isidore's Servant	It is so.
Of my consent that she should be your wife.
Let Ajax go to him.
Before this out-dared dastard? Ere my tongue
When thou didst crown his warlike brows with paper
A thousand more mischances than this one
I am, my lord, as well derived as he,
O, that which I would hide from heaven's eye,
I' the war do grow together: grant that, and tell me,
Destroy'd themselves, and lost the realm of France!
A pair of star-cross'd lovers take their life;
And all great fears, which now import their dangers,
And if you break the ice and do this feat,
Sir?
Of all the under fiends. But if so be
but now promise, Kate, you will endeavour for your
I am your own for ever.
You use her well: the world may laugh again;
But now it is impossible we should:
Conceiving you: were I but twenty-one,
him: discuss the same in French unto him.
If I do dream, would all my wealth would wake me!
Reignier, stand thou as Dauphin in my place:
A messenger with letters from the doctor,
Nor hath Love's mind of any judgement taste;
Howe'er the business goes, you have made fault
consequently sets down the manner how; as, a sad
Tear him to pieces; he's a conspirator.
Re-enter GREMIO
make you to-day a squire of low degree. I pray you,
Besides, she did intend confession
to carry him to execution, and showed him a seeming
As I come out: this action I now go on
Call them forth quickly; we will do so.
Thieves are not judged but they are by to hear,
Have with you. Fare you well.
But now thy beauty is proposed my fee,
Varro's Servant	One Varro's servant, my good lord,--
Exit LUCIUS
Come on, sirrah; hold up your head; answer your
is not politic in the commonwealth of nature to
I, gentle mistress.
Since you have shore
And curse that justice did it.
Bloody; 'tis necessary he should die:
Pray you now, if it may stand with the tune of your
While that the armed hand doth fight abroad,
Must I with base tongue give my noble heart
is the next way to give poor jades the bots: this
Let her come in.
I'll beat him too.
Indued with intellectual sense and souls,
heure de couper votre gorge.
In that it scorns to bear another hue;
I have on Angelo imposed the office;
Nay, that were a punishment too good for them, if
In special business from his holiness.
Of youth upon him; from which the world should note
I kill'd a man and fear I was descried:
Acting it many ways. Nay, had I power, I should
Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers-- if
During his power, go sleep.
A goodly prize, fit for the devil's grace!
Bid farewell to your sisters.
On him, on you, who not? I will maintain
Sufficeth I am come to keep my word,
ACT V
Cassibelan: I do not say I am one; but I have a
with you. I told him you were asleep; he seems to
That wisdom, loyalty and mere dislike
To merit bliss by making me despair:
When we have mark'd with blood those sleepy two
And with all speed post with him toward the north,
Marry, the Lord protect him, for he's a good man!
My reformation, glittering o'er my fault,
I told your grace they would talk anon.
Touching thy spiritual function, not thy life.
For if the French be lords of this loud day,
And turns the sun to shade; alas! alas!
To whom he sends, and what's his embassy:
Mistress Anne, my cousin loves you.
I will in, to be revenged for this villany.
Let not the cloud of sorrow justle it
Exeunt
Is longer than his foreskirt. By this time
Ay, but when?
More than to see this ring. Take him away.
are tasted, allow us as we prove; our head shall go
Adieu, good man devil.
As one that are best acquainted with her humour.
Should show so heinous, black, obscene a deed!
Please it your grace, on to the state-affairs:
For, though before his face I speak the words
Faith so infringed, which such zeal did swear?
'how many hast thou killed to-day?' 'Give my roan
We make woe wanton with this fond delay:
The full cause of our coming.
You must not now deny it is your hand:
But we will make it subject to this boy.
Exeunt CHATILLON and PEMBROKE
Farewell the tranquil mind! farewell content!
And thank heaven, fasting, for a good man's love:
What violent hands can she lay on her life?
credit sake, make all whole. I am joined with no
It forged him some design, which, being believed,
Remember since you owed no more to time
Start not; her actions shall be holy as
Thou disputest like an infant: go, whip thy gig.
Of that fell poison which assaileth him.
Re-enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
Nothing becomes him ill that he would well.
rest so laughed, that it passed.
What's near it with it: it is a massy wheel,
I hold the world but as the world, Gratiano;
face into more lines than is in the new map with the
And shall these labours and these honours die?
Enter KING RICHARD II, JOHN OF GAUNT, with other Nobles and Attendants
Of an one pain, save for a night of groans
Sir Gilbert Talbot, Sir William Stanley;
Mine were the very cipher of a function,
Upon the innocent and aweless throne:
my liking: in the meantime let me be that I am and
if not, I will gain nothing but my shame and the odd hits.
Lady, will you walk about with your friend?
Turning dispiteous torture out of door!
places stops the mouth of all find-faults; as I will
You may imagine him upon Blackheath;
This tun of treasure; and, in lieu of this,
Sweet rest his soul! Fly, lords, and save yourselves;
His seal'd commission, left in trust with me,
To her in haste; give her this jewel; say,
ANTIPHOLUS
But let it be. Horatio, I am dead;
And here another: the one of them imports
Why, it cannot choose but be a noble plot;
The king has sent me otherwhere: besides,
Live, like Diana's priest, betwixt cold sheets,
And that high royalty was ne'er pluck'd off,
Enter a Messenger
I'll win this Lady Margaret. For whom?
As fire, air, water, earth, and heaven can make,
Falstaff as he will chafe at the doctor's marrying
Success to the Roman host.
Art more engaged! Help, angels! Make assay!
If none, he'll say in Troy when he retires,
But to speak that in words which his eye hath
testimony of his intent, you shall run a certain
Ere further leisure yield them further means
That he is open to incontinency;
I do not talk much.
But stirr'd by Cleopatra.
These vows are Hermia's: will you give her o'er?
But every rub is smoothed on our way.
As you fly from your oft-subdued slaves.
[Aside]  I had forgot that foul conspiracy
Seal'd in my function, by my testimony:
For thy best use and wearing.
No more of drowning, do you hear?
Is certain falling, or so slippery that
Though there the people had more absolute power,
Come, Master Shallow; come, son Slender, in.
But who comes here, led by a lusty Goth?
'Tis a Greek invocation, to call fools into a
pathetical break-promise and the most hollow lover
And the best half should have return'd to him,
For this reason, if you'll know,
And let confusion live! Plagues, incident to men,
What's her name?
Reads
ales and his cups; so also Harry Monmouth, being in
What company, at what expense; and finding
Thy master is not there, who was indeed
Retorts to chiding fortune.
A most fine figure!
Why, thou say'st true; it is a paltry cap,
Bastards, and else.
Knights, from my daughter this I let you know,
My father!--methinks I see my father.
sufferance. I see you are obsequious in your love,
Madam, if't please the queen to send the babe,
of three several deaths; first, an intolerable
Sharp enough,
them may have crook'd noses, but to owe such
I tell thee, Kate, 'twas burnt and dried away;
Affliction alters.
courtesy. I think scorn to sigh: methinks I should
that oath, let me turn monster: therefore, my
Thou show'dst a subject's shine, I a true prince.
Ill d eeds are doubled with an evil word.
What will you do, now my necessity
Why speak'st not? speak, man: what's thy name?
Of that and all the progress, more or less,
No, good madam, pardon me; indeed, I will not forth.
let it die as it was born, and, I pray you, be
Come to the bay of Ephesus, he dies,
Brother, farewell: I will unto the king;
Give me my boots, I say; saddle my horse.
Alas, he faints! O Cassio, Cassio, Cassio!
Therefore, O Antony, stay not by his side:
It would become me
colours. But to return to the verses: did they
And let us two devise to bring him thither.
What say you? will you yield, and this avoid,
ish nothing done, so Chrish sa' me, la!
As much I wish all good befortune you.
I hope, in no place so unsanctified
Can any face of brass hold longer out?
Your highness
Have by your wisdom been this day acquitted
That by degrees we mean to look into,
Let it be so: the first inter'gatory
my hope is better, and so look to thyself. Thy
Unapt to stir at these indignities,
All's well, sir: take my power i' the court
been wise.
at home and be hanged.
Come, tears, confound;
At three and two years old, I stole these babes;
That fret the clouds are messengers of day.
Than where castles mounted stand.
And, for a minister of my intent,
SCENE II. The same.
Of your fair courtesy.
with working.
Now judge what cause had Titus to revenge
Come, let us leave her;
Shall be struck off.' Hector, what say you to't?
The hart.
How he comes o'er us with our wilder days,
So leaves me to consider what is breeding
That she'll demand: a ring the county wears,
A stouter champion never handled sword.
A shadow like an angel, with bright hair
So grace and mercy at your most need help you, Swear.
Is thought-sick at the act.
And Richard falls in height of all his pride.
DON
Our guider, come; to the Roman camp conduct us.
Fall Greeks; fail fame; honour or go or stay;
Did slay this Fortinbras; who by a seal'd compact,
There's none but asses will be bridled so.
By the mass, so did we all. I thank you, Richard:
As thou lovest me, Camillo, wipe not out the rest of
To weep there!
An 'twere to me, I should be mad at it.
This I wonder at,
No words, no words: hush.
Devise but how you'll use him when he comes,
I have some wounds upon me, and they smart
And once again proclaim us King of England.
They have made worms' meat of me: I have it,
Why I should welcome such a guest as grief,
And that he will, and shall, if Lucius live.
house. Shall we thither and with our company piece
I am a mother to you.
Exit BASTARD OF ORLEANS
Mine and your master, with his own hand gave me;
The bodies of GONERIL and REGAN are brought in
on when thou art dead and rotten, come hither. What
No, indeed, he is not.
fair thoughts be your fair pillow!
Presenteth Moonshine; for, if you will know,
In my whole course of wooing, thou criedst 'Indeed!'
Sir, call me what thou darest.
Your salt tears' head: now to all sense 'tis gross
My lord, I know not, I, nor can I guess,
What do you call the play?
Your breath of full consent bellied his sails;
I can, at any unseasonable instant of the night,
I will conduct you where you shall be lodged;
No remedy, but you will,--give me the office
Will you make haste?
So sure as you your father's. I, old Morgan,
From what it purposed; since, to wail friends lost
Exit, guarded
That would upon the rack of this tough world
And now may seem as wise as virtuous,
I'll not come back; the tidings that I bring
That rheumatic diseases do abound:
Away with slavish weeds and servile thoughts!
Why didst not tell me sooner? pox of your love letters!
buried her grandam; to fast, like one that takes
How have you slept, my lord?
He shall be endured:
What may she not? She may, yea, marry, may she--
I tell you this: Caesar through Syria
My heart is ever at your service, my lord.
Of sacred chastity and of promise-breach
He still hath held them; that to's power he would
Fear not thy sons; they shall do well enough.
But what care I for words? yet words do well
Love! ay, that it shall, i' faith.
A curse upon him, die he like a thief,
I faint: O Iras, Charmian! 'tis no matter.
What, you wrestle to-morrow before the new duke?
Breaks out to savage madness. Look he stirs:
Our captains, Macbeth and Banquo?
Make me a curse like this.
A halting sonnet of his own pure brain,
And, if you may confess it, say withal,
Nor the soles of her shoe?
Think on my words.
Came you from Padua, from Bellario?
You having lands, and blest with beauteous wives,
he would put us two. I had rather be a giantess,
Of any penny tribute paid. Our countrymen
They laughed not so much at the hair as at his pretty answer.
That is my brother's plea and none of mine;
can you tell?
Sleeps
It hath no end.
Enforced us to this execution?
And is the bride and bridegroom coming home?
What, is Horatio there?
Is the third man that e'er I saw, the first
My absence doth neglect no great designs,
We had not been thus shamefully surprised.
Come, mistress, you must tell's another tale.
By means whereof this breast of mine hath buried
Hath twice done salutation to the morn;
water against a gentlewoman's farthingale? didst
A Roman,
That whoso draws a sword, 'tis present death,
dislikes, to flatter them for their love.
A begging prince what beggar pities not?
Call her forth, brother; here's the friar ready.
All unseen, can passage find;
three and twenty years.
Incurr'd a traitor's name; exposed myself,
And lands restored again be freely granted:
He would kiss you twenty with a breath.
And can say nothing; no, not for a king,
Say, say, who gave it thee?
He blushes, and 'tis it:
by these presents.'
Be patient yet.
I will subscribe--gentle adieus and greetings;
Will not you go?
Gave it a judge's clerk! no, God's my judge,
When a man's verses cannot be understood, nor a
For standing by when Richard stabb'd her son.
Which ne'er came from the lungs, but even thus--
Well, miscreant, I'll be there as soon as you;
March. Enter MONTGOMERY, with drum and soldiers
sea-side where my wine is hid. How now, moon-calf!
Whither 'tis bent: most likely 'tis for you:
Mistress Ford, I cannot cog, I cannot prate,
Come hither, sirrah:
My tear-stain'd eyes to see her miseries.
Sir, you speak nobly.
sky: betwixt the firmament and it you cannot thrust
An't please your grace, the two great cardinals
And that thou mayst perceive how well I like it,
There the grown serpent lies; the worm that's fled
Thou hast. Where was she born? speak; tell me.
Fie!
To see his nobleness!
Here's the midwife's name to't, one Mistress
I afeard of him! A very weak monster! The man i'
Your ships already are in readiness.
And I am struck with sorrow. Take him up.
And when old time shall lead him to his end,
Being holiday, the beggar's shop is shut.
take vantages.
going, forsooth: the business is for Helen to come hither.
What doth her beauty serve, but as a note
Hostess, I forgive thee: go, make ready breakfast;
hath slandered, scorned, dishonoured my kinswoman? O
For law is strict, and war is nothing more.
Prompted you in the ebb of your estate
I thank you, and will stay upon your leisure.
Unfought withal, but I will sell my dukedom,
Master Slender hath married her daughter.
Tucket. Enter MONTJOY
That wash'd his father's fortunes forth of France,
If it might please you, to enforce no further
Alas, he's mad!
So he has.
Prithee, who is't that thou meanest?
And chance it as it may.
As jealous creatures are, it were enough
Every thing is well.
[Aside]                Come what come may,
master Shylock and you, sir: you have the grace of
What duke should that be comes so secretly? I hear
Have leave and leisure to make love to her
Not to affect many proposed matches
To the Elephant.
Say no more:
Pythagoras' time, that I was an Irish rat, which I
King and commander of our commonweal,
Well; more anon.--Comes the king forth, I pray you?
he? marry, I'll see thee hanged first.
Glory is like a circle in the water,
Go with your impositions, I am yours
Craft against vice I must apply:
Some scar of it; lean but upon a rush,
comfort of your young prince Mamillius: it is a
The greater part, the horse in general,
Distasted with the salt of broken tears.
Had baked thy blood and made it heavy-thick,
crammed, as he thinks, with excellencies, that it is
Then go with me to make the matter good.
With which such scathful grapple did he make
till then, sit thee down, sorrow!
As this world goes, to pass for honest.
Where now remains a sweet reversion:
But in my bosom shall she never come,
My lord, what I have done, as best I may,
That art not what thou'rt sure of! Get thee hence:
The hearts of men, they must perforce have melted
Most sovereign creature,--
cudgels. God b' wi' you, and keep you, and heal your pate.
I hope, sir, three times thrice, sir,--
To County Paris, to prepare him up
Tell them your feats; whilst they with joyful tears
Master, I am here entered in bond for you.
To laughter, as I take it,
Some of your French crowns have no hair at all, and
Give you good morrow, sir.
Exit FABIAN
What watchful cares do interpose themselves
I dare be sworn for him he would not leave it
That pierced the fearful hollow of thine ear;
Yet god Achilles still cries 'Excellent!
Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across?
Sirrah, go hire me twenty cunning cooks.
The portraiture of his: I'll court his favours.
get us some excellent music; for to-morrow night we
How say you?
Make us pay down for our offence by weight
Who craves a parley with the Burgundy?
Of the young prince your son: send straight for him
But what said she?
For your sweet music this last night: I do
Is't not your trick?
A brittle glory shineth in this face:
Drawing him aside
My heart dropp'd love, my power rain'd honour, more
another trick, never come in my sight more.
Call Peter, he will show thee where they are.
Perchance shall dry your pities: but I have
Yet if thy thoughts, Bianca, be so humble
Sir Toby, madam, your kinsman.
Why, how now, Stephano!
Enter CASSIO, and certain Officers with torches
Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain,
Enter HUME
To pay our wonted tribute, from the which
dat I shall have Anne Page for myself? By gar, I
but in all things? wherein worthy, but in nothing?
PUBLIUS,  and c. lay hold on CHIRON and DEMETRIUS
A foolish heart, that I leave here behind.
And in my heart the strong and swelling evil
Kneel down, kneel down, and wonder.
Are like the Trojan horse was stuff'd within
That we at our own charge shall ransom straight
A flourish, trumpets! strike alarum, drums!
Get you gone, you dwarf;
And that our drift look through our bad performance,
title, and I will fit her to it. Wonder not till
touch of modesty, that you will not extort from me
the rest of my fortunes turn Turk with me--with two
Dost lack any money? I have a little money for thee.
I dare do all that may become a man;
When first they put the name of king upon me,
Go charge Agrippa
By you to be sustain'd, shall our abode
Why, sir, is this such a piece of study? Now here
Gaoler, take him to thy custody.
What was thy mother's name? tell me but that,
I thank thee, most imperious Agamemnon.
They do it but in mocking merriment;
They fight, and certain Volsces come to the aid of  AUFIDIUS. MARCIUS fights till they be driven in breathless
By the sweet power of music: therefore the poet
Who's there?
Of Laertes?
Twice did he turn his back and purposed so;
Through a straight lane; the enemy full-hearted,
May't please your lordship, 'tis a word or two
Has cluck'd thee to the wars and safely home,
Come, come, my boy; we will to sanctuary.
Hath he conversed with the enemy,
Since Cleopatra died,
Then march to Paris, royal Charles of France,
Enter HERO, MARGARET, and URSULA
The bastard brains with these my proper hands
Buckled below fair knighthood's bending knee:
No, take more:
O Lord, have mercy on me, woful man!
Of all his people shall revolt from him
And better conquest never canst thou make
It hath happened all as I would have had it, save
Exeunt
ANTIPHOLUS
Which leaves itself: to the sea-side straightway:
Upon our houses' thatch, whiles a more frosty people
heaven, I do love: and it hath taught me to rhyme
My lord?
Thanks, good my countryman.
In earnestness to see him: seld-shown flamens
to the complexion of a goose! A fault done first in
I have named him oft.
Let us pursue him ere the writs go forth.
But Margaret was in some fault for this,
Was graft with crab-tree slip; whose fruit thou art,
unsuitable to her disposition, being addicted to a
I would I had thy inches; thou shouldst know
Of two most rare affections! Heavens rain grace
And we for fear compell'd to shut our shops.
O, wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?
In his descent than shall my prompted sword
My lord archbishop;
Oppress'd with wrongs and therefore full of fears,
I am the sea; hark, how her sighs do blow!
For I must talk of murders, rapes and massacres,
joy crown another, so and in such manner that it
Come, let's hear, Jack; what trick hast thou now?
him.
Exeunt
Thus proudly pight upon our Phrygian plains,
And, by my troth, you have cause. You'll sup with me?
And you, my sinews, grow not instant old,
I see thy fury: if I longer stay,
SCENE II. Athens. A room in Timon's house.
And give us truth who 'tis that is arrived.
Sir Eglamour, I would to Valentine,
But there was such laughing! Queen Hecuba laughed
Pleased with this dainty bait, thus goes to bed.
Till time lend friends and friends their helpful swords.
Old Mantuan, old Mantuan! who understandeth thee
Go, base intruder! overweening slave!
An a' speak any thing against me, I'll take him
Notable pirate! thou salt-water thief!
You stand against anointed majesty.
And publish it that she is dead indeed;
I would not understand it.
He can command, lets it straight feel the spur;
should prove the mother of fools. I have brought
Your compensation makes amends, for I
our youth, by the obligation of our ever-preserved
It stains the glory in that happy verse
Our loving lawful, and our faith not torn.
The best feather of our wing--have mingled sums
Thou hold'st a place, for which the pained'st fiend
Where your good word cannot advantage him,
Yet have I fierce affections, and think
Very brief, and to exceeding good sense--less.
Yea, just so much as you may take upon a knife's
Have you laid fair the bed? Is all things well,
But as a property. And now, Octavius,
And gentle Longaville, where lies thy pain?
But at this hour the house doth keep itself;
To daff't for our repose, shall hear a storm.
Adieu, poor soul, that takest thy leave of it!
accusation, uncovered slander, unmitigated rancour,
Not half so bad as thine to England's king,
Alas, their love may be call'd appetite,
About the giving back the great seal to us,
I promise you, my lord, you moved me much.
The gods to-day stand friendly, that we may,
For thy sweet mistress' sake, because thou lovest her.
And take his bottle from him: when that's gone
Show me a thousand that have done thee wrong,
My birth-place hate I, and my love's upon
Now, sirs, have you dispatch'd this thing?
howsoever you colour it in being a tapster, are you
That are of suppler joints, follow them swiftly
Hang 'em! They say!
better assurance, tell them that I, Pyramus, am not
If you be pleased, retire into my cell
Good Monsieur Charles, what's the new news at the
Rob one another. There's more gold. Cut throats:
That breathed upon this earth a Christian;
mulled, deaf, sleepy, insensible; a getter of more
Think you there was, or might be, such a man
Come, you shall have Trent turn'd.
My mind presageth happy gain and conquest.
This is that banish'd haughty Montague,
I never saw the chain, so help me Heaven!
But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
knew not what to take and what to leave, ha?
Thou'rt damn'd as black--nay, nothing is so black;
No, to White-Friars; there attend my coining.
To gaze on Christian fools with varnish'd faces,
Away! I will not have to do with you.
As bring me to the sight of Isabella,
had been tabled by his side and I to peruse him by items.
Had part in this fair maid; now heaven hath all,
Is notwithstanding up. Good morrow, Antony.
Install'd lord archbishop of Canterbury.
And watery death-bed for him. He may win;
Re-enter EROS
is a strumpet. What's the news?
Enter a Servant
Three thousand ducats: I'll not answer that:
How you stand minded in the weighty difference
deuce-ace amounts to.
I'll do't, my lord.
Incapable and shallow innocents,
Honour, riches, marriage-blessing,
'Tis time to give 'em physic, their diseases
it; the age is grown so picked that the toe of the
This hand of mine hath writ in thy behalf,
undone! Fly, run, hue and cry, villain! I am undone!
Safer than mine own two, more dear; I have so;
All the commons
it will be seen to-morrow: my long sickness
It will come,
Even with the very comment of thy soul
And stick them in our will. Sixth part of each?
me such exercises as may become a gentleman, or
Possession of a subject.
these boiled brains of nineteen and two-and-twenty
deceits: dat is de princess.
To ask of whence you are. Report it.
So do I, my lord:
From off the gates of York fetch down the head,
I think no usurer but has a fool to his servant: my
As shore of rock. Attend. This holy fox,
The eye of majesty.
My Dionyza, shall we rest us here,
To WARWICK
And I in fury hither follow'd them,
His means most short, his creditors most strait:
Either be gone before the watch be set,
And now falls on her bed; and then starts up,
So were there a patch set on learning, to see him in a school:
If I can fasten but one cup upon him,
Lavinia, though you left me like a churl,
To-day how many would have given their honours
I will not.
Sick in the world's regard, wretched and low,
I wear it as your enemy.
To our gross selves? Good, good my lord, bethink you;
drive away the time till Falstaff come, I prithee,
Ne'er did poor steward wear a truer grief
And lay new platforms to endamage them.
Put them not to't:
Be now produced and heard.
Which is as dear to me as life itself;
For how I firmly am resolved you know;
The pap of Pyramus;
A kind good night to all!
And, for an earnest of a greater honour,
Come, and take choice of all my library,
And that shall be the ransom for their fault.
And lose the name of action.--Soft you now!
I would have said it; you say well. Here comes the king.
Touch'd you the bastardy of Edward's children?
With his tinct gilded thee.
I denied you not.
What's the newest grief?
Since not to be avoided it falls on me.
When that which makes me bend makes the king bow,
A young and learned doctor to our court.
His liberal eye doth give to every one,
O sir, such a life, with such a wife, were strange!
Measure our confines with such peaceful steps?
For that I knew it the most general way--
No matter, since
I have deserved no better entertainment,
fie!
blessing of God till I have issue o' my body; for
Thou art not honest; and the gods will plague thee,
A gentleman, nurse, that loves to hear himself talk,
Disgrace and horror, that, on my command,
Lesser his person than an ill report;
Till one can do no more.
He flatters you, makes war upon your life.
Your most obedient counsellor, yet that dare
In troops I have dispersed them 'bout the isle.
Are you three usurers' men?
Away with him! and let her sport herself
Enter LAFEU
Mistress Page, divulge Page himself for a secure and
Strange times, that weep with laughing, not with weeping!
And say you would present her at the leet,
My lord, methinks, is very long in talk.
Beast!
So 'tis said, sir; about his son, that should have
How doth that royal merchant, good Antonio?
Shall play the umpire, arbitrating that
Whose dear perfection hearts that scorn'd to serve
[Within]  Madam!
Here comes a gentleman that haply knows more.
Well, my good lord.
Exit Chamberlain
And, like the baseless fabric of this vision,
rather shunned to go even with what I heard than in
Would he deny his letter? I never got him.
Such is the fulness of my heart's content.
And is his oracle.
Unless thou rescue him from foul despair?
Enter the Lord Marshal and the DUKE OF AUMERLE
Now let me show a brother's love to thee.
Shall stay with us: order for sea is given;
And when she drinks, against her lips I bob
All that he is hath reference to your highness.
A gentleman of noble parentage,
And then we shall repent each drop of blood
things answer my mind.
And I shall here abide the hourly shot
I think Hector was not so clean-timbered.
To tell, he longs to see his son, were strong:
Call forth Nathaniel, Joseph, Nicholas, Philip,
All punish'd in the person of this child,
Hear you this Triton of the minnows? mark you
[Aside]  As many inches as you have oceans. Puppies!
Bravely the figure of this harpy hast thou
Aside
And let this tyrannous night take hold upon you,
By the discandying of this pelleted storm,
She will not.
If he be leaden, icy-cold, unwilling,
Nor to her bed no homage do I owe
Whiles the mad mothers with their howls confused
Come on, I say; and first begin with her.
Where Charles the Great, having subdued the Saxons,
anything that appears not foul in the truth of my spirit.
The better, given me by so holy a man.
Is not to stir without great argument,
What did you whisper in your lady's ear?
That bloody mind, I think, they learn'd of me,
A bump as big as a young cockerel's stone;
Our abbeys and our priories shall pay
'Tis more than we deserve, or I expect.
Wife, bid these gentlemen welcome. Come, we have a
This is the cardinal's doing, the king-cardinal:
And for mine too: when law can do no right,
Of censuring Rome? Rather a ditch in Egypt
Enter a Messenger
That the land Salique is in Germany,
Some Cupid kills with arrows, some with traps.
We like not this; thou dost forget thyself.
Who, by the art of known and feeling sorrows,
My nightingale,
Enter EDGAR
I will ever be your head:
As little as a crow, or less, ere left
But are my brother's powers set forth?
What, is there a maid with child by him?
the door: shall we be merry?
More pious debts to heaven than in all
Father, the duke hath told the truth:
how wit may be made a Jack-a-Lent, when 'tis upon
And then I'll presently attend you.
In a trice,
Exeunt
Have smit my credit: I love and honour him,
by your father.
Immediately we do exile him hence:
Ay, that they do, my lord; Hercules and his load too.
Holloa! what storm is this?
Beating your officers, cursing yourselves,
Therefore, most absolute sir, if thou wilt have
Were poor and single business to contend
The borrow of a week. When at Bohemia
For I myself have many tears to wash
On Holmedon's plains. Of prisoners, Hotspur took
Gardon, O sweet gardon! better than remuneration,
Will use you nobly and your followers.
I have a salt and sorry rheum offends me;
is no mean happiness therefore, to be seated in the
The heavens do lour upon you for some ill;
No, neither.
'Tell him from me that he hath done me wrong,
Let witchcraft join with beauty, lust with both!
You draw me, you hard-hearted adamant;
But yet I cannot help you.
Only in this disguise I think't no sin
Tush, that was but his fancy, blame him not;
Which once thou sworest was worth the looking on;
Exeunt
planted and placed and possessed by my master Don
make them bleed, and then to beslubber our garments
The ways are dangerous.
[Within]  Ay, when fowls have no feathers and fish have no fin.
Whose limbs were made in England, show us here
Devoutly to be wish'd. To die, to sleep;
Exeunt with trumpets
But passion lends them power, time means, to meet
Who hath sent thee now?
O king Stephano! O peer! O worthy Stephano! look
You know how apt our love was to accord
Welcome, sweet prince, to London, to your chamber.
Bear witness, Heaven, I have my wish for ever.
Expecting ever when some envious surge
We fail!
not my lord protector.
For thou art fortunate in all thy deeds.
They that mean virtuously, and yet do so,
For yesternight by Catesby was it brought me;
As checking at his voyage, and that he means
subject's duty is the king's; but every subject's
Out of thy sleep. What is it thou didst say?
And so they shall.
It may be heard at court that such as we
Go prick thy face, and over-red thy fear,
Take the boy to you: he so troubles me,
Exit POLONIUS
Is she the goddess that hath sever'd us,
For his return.
No harm: what more?
Under love's heavy burden do I sink.
Till he be brought unto the empress' face,
Do not think, gentlemen. I am drunk: this is my
I am far better born than is the king,
Just of his colour. What if we do omit
Tax of impudence,
Edward and Richard, like a brace of greyhounds
Give me thy hand: I am sorry I beat thee; but,
That stout Pendragon in his litter sick
Madam, be still; with reverence may I say;
Exit
For God's sake, fairly let her be entreated:
SCENE XI. Another part of the same.
both the confirmer of false reckonings. He attends
What if her eyes were there, they in her head?
You so remain.
I am here already, sir.
If I name thee.
Give this to the 'pothecary,
directly and truly, I would think thee an honest
And in the power of us the tribunes, we,
Agrees not with the leanness of his purse.
For the whole world.
All happiness bechance to thee in Milan!
Thou detestable maw, thou womb of death,
But for the concord of my state and time
And now, my lord protector, view the letter
Is likely to beget more conquerors,
With them a bastard of the king's deceased,
Laid nobly on her: which perform'd, the choir,
We are fit to bid her welcome.
Of this most pompous marriage-feast.
I have more charity: but say, I warn'd ye;
That well by heart hath conn'd his embassage:
Read, and declare the meaning.
And kept severely from resort of men,
They say, that they have measured many a mile
You are a royal one, and we obey you.
Prithee, let's walk. Now, by my holidame.
If you like me, she shall have me and mine.
Of your commissions.
It is in mine authority to command
you and desire you, to con them by to-morrow night;
Toward Peloponnesus are they fled.
To the hearers, sir.
We have again. Remember, sir, my liege,
Enter HELENA, Widow, and DIANA
I would I were senseless, sir, that I might not feel
My lord, her wits, I fear me, are not firm:
Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
As when thy lady and thy true love died,
Let's do so. But he sleeps.
One that excels the quirks of blazoning pens,
Yet I express to you a mother's care:
There end thy brave, and turn thy face in peace;
To ALBANY
Killing our enemies, the blood he hath lost--
Away, you fool! it more becomes a man
Clubs, bills, and partisans! strike! beat them down!
See where she comes, apparell'd like the spring,
O, for a horse with wings! Hear'st thou, Pisanio?
husband, come home presently.
How she came placed here in the temple;
thou wast born with.
Pray, sir, by your good favour,--for surely, sir, a
You never shall, so help you truth and God!
whole camp! or rather, the bone-ache! for that,
Keep it, I cannot eat it.
Have just our theme of woe; but for the miracle,
And AEsculapius guide us!
Sirrah, fetch drier logs:
Sir, you are very welcome to our house:
[Aside]  He takes her by the palm: ay, well said,
He thinks, with Jove in heaven, or somewhere else,
In self-same manner doth accuse my husband,
Nor tent to bottom that. But speak.
To the which place a poor sequester'd stag,
And bow my knee before his majesty:
And bid him keep it better than the other.
I may not, verily.
Why do fond men expose themselves to battle,
the ear of the court, how I have been transformed
Supported his estate; nay, Timon's money
Than now the English bottoms have waft o'er
But when you are well pleased.
An thy mind stand to't, boy, steal away bravely.
And thus expiring do foretell of him:
But your petition
In pity of our aged and our youth,
'twas so indeed.
Even in his own garments, and gave himself,
for the goose carries not the fox. It is well:
Humphrey of Gloucester? If thou canst accuse,
You lie, ye rogue; 'tis going to the king's tavern.
Well, good night.
Exit TALBOT. Alarum; retreat; flourish
In Cambria are we born, and gentlemen:
And whatsoever you will employ me in,
[Within]  Qui est la?
Transported shall be at high festivals
Yet she must die, else she'll betray more men.
Exit
For, as I hear, he was much bound for you.
I do desire thy worthy company,
To mine own room again; making so bold,
Of what is to continue: never mind
Thou wast ever an obstinate heretic in the despite
I know that, fool.
With pomp, with triumph and with revelling.
Who was the thane lives yet;
Patience, be near me still; and set me lower:
Edmund is dead, my lord.
And I will fill them with prophetic tears.
I'll tell you true. I'll call to you.
Whose face I never saw?
To her unhappy brother Claudio?
Hast heavy substance; bleed'st not; speak'st; art sound.
Cry out 'Olivia!' O, You should not rest
Ay, those attires are best: but, gentle nurse,
Even to my full of view.
For whom he now is banish'd, her own price
After a voyage, he hath strange places cramm'd
Look in his youth to have him so cut off
To meet her new-beloved any where:
We'll but commend what we intend to sell.
The sweeter welcome, we will keep ourself
Even as thou wilt, sweet Warwick, let it be;
Then was Venus like her mother, for her father is but grim.
An if the wind blow any way from shore,
Is at the nuptial of his son a guest
Wherewith my brother held you in the cloister?
Here a dance of twelve Satyrs
learning, gentleness, virtue, youth, liberality,
DON
Sperr up the sons of Troy.
Is left this vault to brag of.
That many have their giddy brains knock'd out:
Your shafts of fortune, though they hurt you mortally,
executioner, who in his office lacks a helper: if
O slanderous world! Kate like the hazel-twig
A plague o' both your houses! I am sped.
He opens the silver casket
Not you to me, but I betray'd by you:
I now repent I told the pursuivant
Yes, mercy, if you report him truly.
This to your majesty; this to the queen.
The pale companion is not for our pomp.
She wakes; and I entreated her come forth,
What, are my doors opposed against my passage?
A' has a little gall'd me, I confess;
your leek? there is not enough leek to swear by.
The senators of Rome are this good belly,
Who is your sister's son, Mark Antony.
I have awhile given truce unto my wars,
I will not take her on gift of any man.
Enter ROMEO, MERCUTIO, BENVOLIO, with five or six Maskers, Torch-bearers, and others
Wife to thy Edward, to thy slaughter'd son,
OTHELLO retires
Because myself do want my servants' fortune:
What, Lucius, ho!
Gorging and feeding from our soldiers' hands;
By this hand, sir, his wife is a more respected
time and oft.
One business does command us all; for mine Is money.
He's mine, or I am his: mine emulation
Help Marcius, help,
That death and nature do contend about them,
The fruit she goes with
honest a 'omans as I will desires among five
Makes speed to catch the tiger; bootless speed,
Pray heartily he be at palace.
With repetition of my Romeo's name.
Of what commands I should be subject to,
Against the old kind king; or something deeper,
High be our thoughts: I know my uncle York
And liegemen to the Dane.
In embassy to his mother: his body's hostage
Are you not ashamed? let the clothes alone.
It waves you to a more removed ground:
You look but on the outside of this work.
I think their inhibition comes by the means of the
Of thinking too precisely on the event,
Come, gentlemen, ye shall go my way, which
Ah, Tranio, what a cruel father's he!
To be a party in this injury.
That wench is stark mad or wonderful froward.
Makes the remembrance dear. Well, call him hither;
My lord?
Religiously provokes. Be pleased then
BISHOP
I shall stay here the forehorse to a smock,
That it alone is high fantastical.
Neglected my sworn duty in that case.
It would seem strange unto him when he waked.
He did arrest me with an officer.
'Twould fall upon ourselves.
You make amends.
For mischiefs manifold and sorceries terrible
may, but at the length truth will out.
Welcome, ass. Now let's have a catch.
Whatever fortune stays him from his word:
Cleopatra, know,
Which is as thin of substance as the air
Exeunt
'Item: She can knit.'
with me as the very true sonnet is, 'Please one, and
In that I'll war with you.
Tell thou the tale: but hadst thou not crossed me,
No, by the rood, not so:
A woman's general; what should we fear?
Be thou so too; and so break off your talk,
good diet, as I told you,--
out says thou art a fair corse, I'll be sworn and
This is my treasurer: let him speak, my lord,
Your reputation comes too short for my daughter; you
My disobedience 'gainst the king my father
Too light for such a swain as you to catch;
He had two sons: if this be worth your hearing,
Moor, she was chaste; she loved thee, cruel Moor;
With other vile and ignominious terms:
Five shillings to one on't, with any man that knows
That's a certain text.
It is a sleepy language and thou speak'st
Your sued-for tongues?
And mount her pitch, whom thou in triumph long
Grim death, how foul and loathsome is thine image!
Ah sir! ah sir! Well, death's the end of all.
Belike for want of rain, which I could well
Exeunt Host, SHALLOW, and PAGE
And I do hope good days and long to see.
to entreat me to 't.
Offered by a child to an old man; which is wit-old.
For each true word, a blister! and each false
We'll not be long away.
For you have stol'n their buzzing, Antony,
Exeunt
See, then, thou fight'st against thy countrymen
At Gratiano's lodging some hour hence.
Comfort, my sovereign! gracious Henry, comfort!
I have been talking with a suitor here,
They retire
With base? with baseness? bastardy? base, base?
Against thy mother aught: leave her to heaven
Ha, ha, ha! Well, masters, good night: an there be
That govern us below.
lecherous. Tut, I should have been that I am,
That youth's a rare courtier: 'Rain odours;' well.
To give it her. I did so: and take heed on't;
In life but double death, now Gloucester's dead.
More quaint, more pleasing, nor more commendable:
Both one and other he denies me now.
For his undone lord than mine eyes for you.
Which is both healthful and good husbandry:
'I go, sir!'--Take the bonds along with you,
The lofty cedar, royal Cymbeline,
To the water side I must conduct your grace;
I swear to thee, even by thine own fair eyes,
Than can my ears that tragic history.
epitaph than their ill report while you live.
lust, are not the things they go under: many a maid
Is not a thing to laugh to scorn.
As to annoy us all: which to prevent,
Into a havior of less fear, ere wildness
Again in pity of my hard distress
And more than may be gather'd by thy shape.
Where I have lived at honest freedom, paid
Mistress Page is come with me, sweetheart.
That stripp'd her from his benediction, turn'd her
Exit Tailor
Indeed, 'tis true that Henry told me of;
Get on your nightgown, lest occasion call us,
At the park gate; and therefore haste away,
Shall I call you father?
Enter a Messenger
That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
Vat be all you, one, two, tree, four, come for?
Ravish our daughters?
Where are those--Sit down, Kate, and welcome.--
find, I warrant you, that there is no tiddle toddle
But let the famish'd flesh slide from the bone,
if you will help to bear it, Sir John, take all, or
Exit
Well thought on: take my sword,
What manner of man, an it like your majesty?
Upon that were my thoughts tiring, when we
I, that am honest; I, that hold it sin
already made thee butter. But tell me, Jack, whose
Which many a good tall fellow had destroy'd
Dead Caesar's trencher; nay, you were a fragment
An if this be at all, a most strange story.
'Yea,' let them say, to stick the heart of falsehood,
horse, and he frets like a gummed velvet.
Why, horns, which such as you are fain to be
The jeweller that owes the ring is sent for,
To see my best friend ta'en before my face!
Even for this charge.
And if my legs were two such riding-rods,
My lord, you do not well in obstinacy
That suffer surfeit, cloyment and revolt;
Could not with graceful eyes attend those wars
If secret powers
Exeunt PROCULEIUS and Soldiers
First, as I am his kinsman and his subject,
There was a pretty redness in his lip,
Than all the princes in the land beside:
O Buckingham, take heed of yonder dog!
You'll be gone, sir knave, and do as I command you.
Which seems a little fouler than it is,
Tying thine ear to no tongue but thine own!
Many a poor man's son would have lien still
If you head and hang all that offend that way but
Re-enter MARK ANTONY
o' the song: would God would serve the world so all
If thou canst like this creature as a maid,
Exeunt
Which is budded out;
This will I tell my master.
Why, e'en so: and now my Lady Worm's; chapless, and
the dawning as we do.
Unlike all others, chaffless. Pray, your pardon.
I think so, Charmian: dull of tongue, and dwarfish!
With silken coats and caps and golden rings,
Stand for your own; unwind your bloody flag;
To use it for my time: I am a brother
Nestor-like aged in an age of care,
For every man has business and desire,
me, 'As jealous as Ford, Chat searched a hollow
And you, good brother father. What offence hath
praise for creating. If she had partaken of my
No less importing than our general good,
O braggart vile and damned furious wight!
Enter MACBETH
Is't possible you will away to-night?
As well as I had seen and heard him speak
There is no more but so: say it is done,
But I have none: the king-becoming graces,
Assign'd am I to be the English scourge.
What news abroad i' the world?
And his page o' t' other side, that handful of wit!
A crown for York! and, lords, bow low to him:
Ay, sir.
is to him advantage; or not dying, the time was
Sir Proteus, gentle lady, and your servant.
How now! canst stand?
The washing of ten tides!
Nor no man's lord; I have no name, no title,
Yet say I, he is in love.
Which is he?
Thou hast said enough.
Hail!
you like me, Kate?
Exit
Which argued thee a most unloving father.
Ay, but thou shalt not go.
If York have ill demean'd himself in France,
No treachery; but want of men and money.
war-like, court-like, and learned preparations.
What say'st thou? wilt thou be of our consort?
A time before we came unto this cell?
With holy breath.
As my two brothers, happy! but most miserable
all others?
My wife comes foremost; then the honour'd mould
Into life's flower again!
Become a Christian and thy loving wife.
To run upon the sharp wind of the north,
What kind of help?
Enter JAQUES DE BOYS
Great is the rumor of this dreadful knight,
Do not deny. Beshrew his soul for me,
It cannot be but he was murder'd here;
SCENE V. OLIVIA's garden.
The goodness of the night upon you, friends!
[Aside to MOTH]  Once to behold, rogue.
Exit ISABELLA
At our importance hither is he come,
Being the time the potion's force should cease.
Would in so just a business shut his bosom
To this effect, before you were new crown'd,
How came her eyes so bright? Not with salt tears:
Enter TRINCULO
He seeks my life; his reason well I know:
Whom he hath dull'd and cloy'd with gracious favours,
given me this morning; but I defy all angels, in
Your mariners are muleters, reapers, people
There's livers out of Britain.
Whate'er falls more. We must to horse again.
Till all the Andronici be made away.
Than how?
And see where comes the breeder of my sorrow!
These words, these looks, infuse new life in me.
Still Music
I wish you the peace of mind, most royal couplement!
Ay, marry, there; some flattery for this evil.
forbid her my house? She comes of errands, does
Farewell, hostess.
But who was this?
And she takes upon her to spy a white hair on his chin.
By sudden flight: come, dally not, be gone.
The medicine of our house, how shall we do?
You stand within his danger, do you not?
Nay, the man hath no wit that cannot, from the
Shame that they wanted cunning, in excess
Why, woman, your husband is in his old lunes again:
Which the world together joins,
Unto Diana there a votaress.
graze and my lambs suck.
None, madam.
admiration? Impart.
For the love of all the gods,
Even to Augustus' throne.
which may make you and him to rue at the other.
Was to be trusted with them.
My lord protector, 'tis his highness' pleasure
His eyes were green as leeks.
Hold therefore, Angelo:--
I cannot be offended with my trade. Please you to name it.
'Gainst knaves and thieves men shut their gate,
Whose high imperious thoughts have punish'd me
To look our dead, and then to bury them;
Which make a sound, but kill'd are wonder'd at.
Join we together, for the public good,
I never gave it him: send for him hither;
beast, abide?
Nor hear I from my mistress who did promise
better man than thee.
wench is cast away: she's quick; the child brags in
Harry the king, Bedford and Exeter,
How long is this ago?
This treasure of an oyster; at whose foot,
As firm as faith.
Laugh'd in his face; and when with grief he wept,
Come, come, they are almost here. How many stand
my disposition? One inch of delay more is a
Which once untangled, much misfortune bodes:
Still you keep o' the windy side of the law: good.
Now, my dearest queen,--
Madam, with much ado:
staves, and strong ones: these are but switches to
My resolution and my hands I'll trust;
Drinks
More daring or more bold, is now alive
To verify our title with their lives.
Since that the trade and profit of the city
So please my lord, I might not be admitted;
Insisting on the old prerogative
not what to say. We will give you sleepy drinks,
taunt of one that makes fritters of English? This
Proves valueless: you are forsworn, forsworn;
Best draw my sword: and if mine enemy
he would see her to-morrow.
Caesar has taken Toryne.
These dangerous unsafe lunes i' the king,
'Tis lack of kindly warmth they are not kind;
Enter EGLAMOUR
Sport and repose lock from me day and night!
Help, ho! murder! murder!
For if they could, Cupid himself would blush
The general and his wife are talking of it;
Nay, good my lord, put him to't; let him have his
Into the hands of one that loves you not;
For I have need of many orisons
Well, then, go you into hell?
see him a man.
And find I am alone felicitate
And six or seven winters more respect
Envied against the people, seeking means
That to Laertes I forgot myself;
O brave monster! Lead the way.
As my good nurse Lychorida hath oft
Demetrius loves your fair: O happy fair!
By this brave duke came early to his grave:
with the buttock of the night than with the forehead
Nor to his service no such joy on earth.
A letter for me! it gives me an estate of seven
I know him not.
But that you shall sustain moe new disgraces,
For, had the passions of thy heart burst out,
Not meaning to partake with me in danger,
That man of hers, Pisanio, her old servant,
Virtue itself 'scapes not calumnious strokes:
Don Pedro: he hath borne himself beyond the
Putting a bracelet upon her arm
present. Why should I carry lies abroad?
To land his legions all as soon as I;
imagination blows him.
More monstrous standing by: whereof I reckon
Let him cry 'Praise and glory on his head!'
Romeo, will you come to your father's? we'll
which with,--O, with--but with this I passion to say
There goes the Talbot, with his colours spread,
And hath abatements and delays as many
Thou wert but a lost monster.
As not to know the language I have lived in:
As he being drest to some oration.'
Thou wilt fall backward when thou comest to age;
Divers and dangerous; which are heresies,
Extremely stretch'd and conn'd with cruel pain,
I think affliction may subdue the cheek,
Sir?
'Tis no such matter. Then you do not love me?
The Ladies make signs to CORIOLANUS
Call them again, my lord, and accept their suit.
Windy attorneys to their client woes,
honour two notorious benefactors.
ambition. Who is here so base that would be a
This swears he, as he is a prince, is just;
To make the even truth in pleasure flow.
Sorrow on thee and all the pack of you,
That the rude sea grew civil at her song
This, this All-Souls' day to my fearful soul
Is now transported, gentles, to Southampton;
And on to-morrow, bid them march away.
You are too swift, sir, to say so:
'Tis true, I gave a noble to the priest
But that I am bound in charity against it!
These both put by a poor petitioner,
The knave turns fool that runs away;
Melt and lament for her.
But, by great Mars, the captain of us all,
To have her love, provided that your fortune
[To KING RICHARD III]
You have her father's love, Demetrius;
Enter the PRINCE and Attendants
Enter the QUEEN and two Ladies
labour and effect one thing specially.
Enter PORTIA, dressed like a doctor of laws
rewards, his authorities. But such officers do the
O, were it but my life,
Which is the Queen of Egypt?
you out of reprieve and pardon.
Which with a bounteous hand was kindly lent;
Know you him?
kind of behavior, as they say: for the gentlewoman
To visit you, my lord; no other occasion.
A hateful truth.
Is't like that lead contains her? 'Twere damnation
Betwixt the prince and beggar: I have said
Alack, sir, no; her passions are made of nothing but
Is true and false; and what he with his oath
And Caesar shall go forth.
Which was when I perceived thee--that thou camest
No, my good lord, Diana.
The lustre of the better yet to show,
knaves in Kendal green came at my back and let drive
me;  but she's gone.
What's the noise?
And tell him so; for I will ease my heart,
I' the common show-place, where they exercise.
Vincetino's son brought up in Florence
the rights of our fellowship, by the consonancy of
are forfeited to me, and my honour's paid to him. He
That magical word of war, we have effected;
Should we be taking leave
Make haste, make haste.
But, good my Lord, do it so cunningly
But other of your insolent retinue
After the moon. If thou art rich, thou'rt poor;
Is crack'd, and all the precious liquor spilt,
Makes both my body pine and soul to languish,
Strains his young nerves and puts himself in posture
Achieved her mistress.
If I discover'd not which way she was gone,
honourable father.
Take heed you dally not before your king;
Heavens keep him from these beasts!
Where as thou know'st, against the face of death,
The rest shall bear this burden
We'll none of that: that have I told my love,
For no name fits thy nature but thy own!
'Tis now your honour, daughter, to explain
No more of him; he is a worthy man: make way, they
One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
the duller parts:
Where is Lysander and fair Hermia?
By her he had two children at one birth.
This way, my lord; for this way lies the game.
Sir, I will tell you;
As great'st does least.
But cast their gazes on Marina's face;
Touching King Henry's oath and your succession.
Lords, I am hot with haste in seeking you:
opportunity to be required, look you, I will be so
O, did you so? And do you remember what you said of the duke?
This is thy sheath;
Now, mother, what's the matter?
Do you hear how he misplaces?
Hautboys. Enter KING HENRY VIII and others, as  masquers, habited like shepherds, ushered by the  Chamberlain. They pass directly before CARDINAL WOLSEY, and gracefully salute him
Where all my sins are writ, and that's myself.
Hath heard of great Augustus: Caius Lucius
Hard-hearted Clifford, take me from the world:
Sir Topas, Sir Topas, good Sir Topas, go to my lady.
Of this young Percy's pride? the prisoners,
In open market-place produced they me,
Greet you our victory? you look like Romans,
true lovers run into strange capers; but as all is
Which chance to find us: O, my lord, my lord!
Go, bear Patroclus' body to Achilles;
[To the Citizens]  Hence to your homes; be gone!
Mark'd with a blot, damn'd in the book of heaven:
Proud with his form, in his eye pride express'd:
With flowers of winter.
And critic Timon laugh at idle toys!
Most gracious majesty,--
Against the general enemy Ottoman.
What, no more ceremony? See, my women!
Until a time may serve: for present vengeance,
That a woman conceived me, I thank her; that she
Whose high respect and rich validity
Forsooth, a blind man at Saint Alban's shrine,
Are you my wife and will not call me husband?
drunkest last.
No, no: this shall forbid it: lie thou there.
Exit
measure him,' says she, 'by my own spirit; for I
Let it be lawful that law bar no wrong:
Enter CORNELIUS and Ladies
Well, what would you say?
Concerning this, sir,--O  well-painted passion!--
Then is there here one Master Caper, at the suit of
As hazel nuts and sweeter than the kernels.
Even such, they say, as stand in narrow lanes,
Lady, vouchsafe to listen what I say.
Exeunt
Out upon thee, knave! dost thou put upon me at once
As frowning at the favours of the world?
Pity may move thee 'pardon' to rehearse.
Be merry, and employ your chiefest thoughts
You take a precipice for no leap of danger,
And equity exiled your highness' land.
Under your good correction, I have seen,
I know it, uncle, and oppose not myself
O, what a rash and bloody deed is this!
As good a gentleman as the emperor.
Help not all, yet do they ease the heart.
All parts of his subjection loyally. For Cloten,
Who find in my exile the want of breeding,
And you, the judges, bear a wary eye.
shalt enjoy her; therefore make money. A pox of
Stealing so poorly.
What heir of York is there alive but we?
So out of thought, and thereto so o'ergrown,
Now 'tis the spring, and weeds are shallow-rooted;
Come, come, in wooing sorrow let's be brief,
see thee again.
And with the deepest malice of the war
Here is a silly stately style indeed!
Learned and reverend fathers of his order,
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH and MARIA
For these, these, tribunes, in the dust I write
Sweet huntsman, Bassianus 'tis we mean--
the fear of God, and not with drunken knaves.
Here pitch our tents, even here in Bosworth field.
I have done my duty.
He rises on the toe: that spirit of his
Abortives, presages and tongues of heaven,
Kisses him
To leave the figure or disfigure it.
A noble shalt thou have, and present pay;
And to obey shall be in me remorse,
Isidore's Servant	A plague upon him, dog!
Taming my wild heart to thy loving hand:
And if words will not, then our weapons shall.
to the history of lust and foul thoughts. They met
Though I alone do feel the injury.
Away! for every thing is seal'd and done
Margaret shall now be queen, and rule the king;
Upon the wounds his body bears, which show
this hand, I will supplant some of your teeth.
Thy niece and I, poor creatures, want our hands,
Abase foul stone, made precious by the foil
Yet I was mortally brought forth, and am
Fly, father, fly! for all your friends are fled,
SCENE I. A room in the castle.
The enmity and discord which of late
but duteous, and true preferment shall tender itself
Poor key-cold figure of a holy king!
By Roderigo.
Chequering the eastern clouds with streaks of light,
physician, and Sir Hugh hath shown himself a wise
That mould up such a mighty piece as this is,
Are you a suitor to the maid you talk of, yea or no?
His folly to the mettle of my speech?
That never meat sweet-savor'd in thy taste,
By heaven, I rather would have been his hangman.
COUNTESS
The valiant Paris seeks you for his love.
By him imprinted and within his power
Enter OTHELLO and IAGO
Alas, poor Maccabaeus, how hath he been baited!
Thus war hath given thee peace, for thou art still.
Bespoke him thus; 'Contaminated, base
SCENE I. Verona. A public place.
Perhaps thou wilt object my holy oath:
There's nothing differs but the outward fame.
If you had sent but two hours before,--
Makes him oppose himself against his king.
Hector bade ask.
Their coin upon large interest, I myself
Antiochus and his daughter dead;
Take thou this vial, being then in bed,
You understand me, sir: so shall you stay
You know a sword employ'd is perilous,
I pray you, who, my lord?
With edge of penny cord and vile reproach:
And set the murderous Machiavel to school.
He is most in the company of the right noble Claudio.
What a pretty thing man is when he goes in his
That I, thy enemy, due thee withal;
When I was sick, you gave me bitter pills,
my beck than I have thoughts to put them in,
For the ingredients of our cauldron.
I cannot but remember such things were,
'Twas sin before, but now 'tis charity.
Vouchsafe to speak my thanks and my obedience,
I swear, I scorn the term; Nor shall my Nell keep lodgers.
This service is not service, so being done,
He seizes her
Like wrath in death and envy afterwards;
make me afeard.
How say'st thou, Charles? shall our condition stand?
To be exiled, and thrown
There is some soul of goodness in things evil,
Saw you the cardinal?
present itself; a devilish knave. Besides, the
Succeeding his father Bolingbroke, did reign,
If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
Things bad begun make strong themselves by ill.
any more to your tents: I will keep where there is
For and a shrouding sheet:
O Titus, see, O, see what thou hast done!
Look'd he o' the inside of the paper?
Ever sprung; as sun and showers
And dost thou now fall over to my fores?
And shall I now give o'er the yielded set?
Whose virtue and whose general graces speak
To BARDOLPH
you give me any conserves, give me conserves of
The Turk, that two and fifty kingdoms hath,
I came this way so happily: the king
Unwisely, not ignobly, have I given.
Most disobedient and refractory.
Fiend, thou torment'st me ere I come to hell!
And spare no blood beside.
And pity 'tis you lived at odds so long.
The fig of Spain!
Thou didst receive the holy sacrament,
I am bound to you.
He must fight singly to-morrow with Hector, and is so
And so he did; but yet I like it not,
To Mantua, where I hear he makes abode;
Ready they were to shoot me to the heart.
O, they are our friends; but one cup: I'll drink for
Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must:
Wearing the crown of France, till satisfied
For the table, sir, it shall be served in; for the
I am content; so he will let me have
GREMIO discovered. Enter behind BIONDELLO, LUCENTIO, and BIANCA
Patroclus is a fool positive.
This holy shrine, the gentle fine is this:
I do beseech your grace to pardon me:
Who, Hero?
Come on.
I never did thee harm.
Hate all, curse all, show charity to none,
That shall remain a poison where it is,
O, be not moved, Prince Troilus:
What is the matter, sir?
And shape his service wholly to my hests
Say that the emperor requests a parley
Who is most inward with the royal duke?
Give Mutius burial with our brethren.
But thou the king. Woe doth the heavier sit,
this is the time that the unjust man doth thrive.
With all my heart, and think me honoured
And like bright metal on a sullen ground,
Was ever king so grieved for subjects' woe?
Indeed, my lord,
He neither does nor shall.
This may plant courage in their quailing breasts;
As if some planet had unwitted men--
So we be rid of them, do with 'em what thou wilt.
You shall ask pardon of his majesty.
That is renown'd for faith? Be fickle, fortune;
God save your majesty! and well met, gentlemen:
take him to be, he is Ajax.
Each part, deprived of supple government,
In reason nothing.
When he that speaks them pleases those that hear.
And apprehend thee for a felon here.
I am a feather for each wind that blows:
His grace
The sun was not so true unto the day
And give sweet passage to my sinful soul!
My lessons make no music in three parts.
His help to crave, and my dear hap to tell.
Be moderate; allay thy ecstasy,
Faints
Great lords and gentlemen, what means this silence?
A heaviness that's gone.
proclamation. Let him be but testimonied in his own
magician, most profound in his art and yet not
None, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.
Exeunt
Uncle, give me your hands: nay, dry your eyes;
Sir Topas!
They froze me into silence.
If I command him, follows my appointment:
If I be waspish, best beware my sting.
Speak, speak. Quite dumb?
In me to lose.
Will come when it will come.
Enter ALEXAS, from OCTAVIUS CAESAR
SCENE III. Before OLIVER'S house.
My brother might not claim him; nor your father,
Go hence; good night; and here stands all your state:
And therefore, like herself, wise, fair and true,
It most of all these reasons bindeth us,
Suffolk concluded on the articles,
tongue, and I thine, most truly-falsely, must needs
Enter AENEAS, PARIS, ANTENOR, DEIPHOBUS, and DIOMEDES
Well, I will back him straight: O esperance!
She will not fail, for lovers break not hours,
Enter LEPIDUS, MECAENAS, and AGRIPPA
I pray you, is my master yet return'd?
him a present! give him a halter: I am famished in
To wipe out our ingratitude with loves
The end of this day's business ere it come!
Whiles, like a doe, I go to find my fawn
hours since, and he was ever precise in
Shalt with him hence.
Proud and disdainful, harping on what I am,
Ay, that's the first thing that we have to do;
As my great power thereof may give thee sense,
Might be a copy to these younger times;
And, though thou think me poor, I am the man
Ay, that's well known:
He cannot want the best
Nay more, while grace is saying, hood mine eyes
There is a monastery two miles off;
She alone knew this;
He that stirs next to carve for his own rage
shalt see an answerable sequestration:--put but
Crying confusion.
Through whom a thousand sighs are breathed for thee!
This his good melancholy oft began,
Re-enter OTHELLO
That thought to fill his grave in quiet, yea,
Thou hast lost by this a kingdom.
If I do wake, some planet strike me down,
As is appointed us, at Shrewsbury.
New joy wait on you! Here our play has ending.
gives her folly motion and advantage: and now she's
The dinner is on the table; my father desires your
That knows his valour, and knows not his fear,
their faction: but it was a strong composure a fool
Ruling in large and ample empery
Therefore I took your hands, but was, indeed,
Could witness it, for he was with me then;
A friend should bear his friend's infirmities,
Here, in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
We will have rings and things and fine array;
wishes:'--her very phrases! By your leave, wax.
nominate tender.
Of their dead bodies!
Of common ounces? will you with counters sum
with a curtsy.
therein would have found issue. Hear me profess
this letter: the army of France is landed. Seek
My gracious lord, Henry your foe is taken,
My son and I will have the wind of you:
To overgo thy plaints and drown thy cries!
And you, my sovereign lady, with the rest,
Our love being yours, the error that love makes
Exeunt
His act did not o'ertake his bad intent,
Madam, I go with all convenient speed.
glass-gazing, super-serviceable finical rogue;
Kneels
Your reason?
He did comply with his dug, before he sucked it.
Exit
Enter FALSTAFF and MISTRESS FORD
Greater than that.
When nought would be accepted but the ring,
Be emptied to redeem a traitor home?
And mannerly distinguishment leave out
Love, and be friends, as two such men should be;
Go, hie thee, hie thee from this slaughter-house,
To both your honours.
What shipping and what lading's in our haven,
How dost thou, Charles?
Exeunt all but APEMANTUS and TIMON
To one his lands withheld, and to the other
Toward the king first, then his laws, in filling
Our king has all the Indies in his arms,
And with a care, exempt themselves from fear;
No vessel can peep forth, but 'tis as soon
I say, I am your mother.
I knew it for my bond.
Yea, get the better of them. What's to do?
To send me packing with an host of men:
Or failing so, yet that I put the Moor
But cold demeanor in Octavius' wing,
They sit
Make me believe that thou art only mark'd
Canterbury,
And your affection not gone forth, I'll make you
Which care of them, not pity of myself,
Got with much ease. Now merrily to horse:
Had I a glass, I would.
The party 'gainst the which he doth contrive
to be delivered as far as Charing-cross.
Let music sound while he doth make his choice;
Hum!
Will strike amazement to their drowsy spirits:
As he made semblance of his duty, would
My lord, I am guiltless, as I am ignorant
I pray thee, Rosalind, sweet my coz, be merry.
Aside
Accursed be he that seeks to make them foes!
From which even here I slip my weary neck,
He being of age to govern of himself?
There is a fat friend at your master's house,
From all the impure blots and stains thereof;
I call upon thee.
nor no penance; but a' must fast three days a week.
In what particular thought to work I know not;
To Lewis the emperor, and Lewis the son
On me, whose all not equals Edward's moiety?
O brave spirit!
The empress sends it thee, thy stamp, thy seal,
Where is that ring, boy?
Enter JOHN MORTIMER and HUGH MORTIMER
You heard what this knave told me, did you not?
Or Night kept chain'd below.
Of that occasion that shall bring it on.
Re-enter TROILUS
Sweet love, I see, changing his property,
way to the pox. Here comes the Lord Lysimachus disguised.
Namely to appeal each other of high treason.
Madam, and you, my mother, will you go
Enter LODOVICO and GRATIANO
Here, take away this dish.
Exit
Is all our travail turn'd to this effect?
Welcome my lord; I dance attendance here;
Tear for tear, and loving kiss for kiss,
But, stay; I smell a man of middle-earth.
As I, thus wrong'd, hence unbelieved go!
Enter KENT
I do repent me that I put it to you.
O my good lord,
good troth,
fellow of this temper, Kate, whose face is not worth
At our quaint spirits. Sing me now asleep;
God send you, sir, a speedy infirmity, for the
Convenient is it. Make a swift return;
An if thy stumps will let thee play the scribe.
Enter MONTJOY
Visit the speechless sick and still converse
What ho, Malvolio!
ACT I
What's in a name? that which we call a rose
Your daughter, whom she bore in hand to love
honour? a word. What is in that word honour? what
Ay, and the time seems thirty unto me,
But yet we want a colour for his death:
And tumble me into some loathsome pit,
Had virtuous uncles to protect his grace.
You were now running o'er: you have scarce time
Command the rest to stand. God and our right!
I am very sorry that you are not well.
We'll hear the will: read it, Mark Antony.
Enter FENTON and ANNE PAGE
side? the king's: no, on both in one, or one in
For I am almost ready to dissolve,
Turn from me, then, that noble countenance,
The ladies, her attendants of her chamber,
Whom I, with this obedient steel, three inches of it,
And I the rather wean me from despair
And his pure soul unto his captain Christ,
I stood upon the hatches in the storm,
Hath clapp'd his tail between his legs and cried:
The wandering prince and Dido once enjoy'd,
Were they that murdered our emperor's brother;
Lag of a brother? Why bastard? wherefore base?
SCENE I. Fields between Dartford and Blackheath.
By that sin fell the angels; how can man, then,
You are abused and by some putter-on
Your daughter spent in Genoa, as I heard, in one
We two saw you four set on four and bound them, and
O, do not swear, my lord of Buckingham.
[To VINCENTIO]  Why, how now, gentleman! why, this
Streaming the ensign of the Christian cross
Of pretty, fond, adoptious christendoms,
I'll be revenged:
That they did give the rings away to men;
Teeth hadst thou in thy head when thou wast born,
Leave off to wonder why I drew you hither,
Art thou Revenge? and art thou sent to me,
Extremity out of act. What were thy friends?
bound to your answer? this learned constable is
Yet this I will not do, do how I can;
Lend me a heart replete with thankfulness!
The Duke of Buckingham came from his trial.
native garb, he could not therefore handle an
Fashion'd to Beatrice.
Cannot hold out to Tyrus: there I'll leave it
Else none at all in ought proves excellent.
As is the ooze and bottom of the sea
Wall holds up his fingers
Of Lucius, son to old Andronicus;
nunnery, go.
Supply his life, or that which can command it.
That I am desperate of obtaining her.
Our souls religiously confirm thy words.
Not so, an't please your worship.
Unto a woman, happy but for me,
Yet do I not use my horse for my mistress, or any
'Tis not the many oaths that makes the truth,
And yet I do thee wrong to mind thee of it,
Pity the dearth that I have pined in,
would this be, if he durst steal any thing
You i' the camlet, get up o' the rail;
What's that?
and all one.
Bad news, by'r lady; seldom comes the better:
Where didst thou see her? O unhappy girl!
That sits above,
Why, I can smile, and murder whiles I smile,
Lucius, what book is that she tosseth so?
O thou caitiff! O thou varlet! O thou wicked
hurt done! Though honesty be no puritan, yet it
proper cost and charges, without having any dowry.'
I' faith, coz, 'tis he.
You'll kiss me hard and speak to me as if
Exeunt
But keep it till you woo another wife,
Share the advice betwixt you; if both gain, all
Enter LENNOX
Pembroke, look to 't. Farewell, Chatillon.
Iden, farewell, and be proud of thy victory. Tell
That she was coming with a full intent
To one thing constant never:
Sir, I am too old to learn:
Her brother's ghost his paved bed would break,
If I did think, sir, I were well awake,
But, leaving this, what is your grace's pleasure?
And by whose letters I'll dispose myself.
While you are thus employ'd, what resteth more,
The last of all the Romans, fare thee well!
Be to me and every man that dares not fight!
My wife, her sister, and a rabble more
A most delicious banquet by his bed,
And the continuance of their parents' rage,
Where's that?
To be the princely bride of such a lord;
'His meanest garment!' Well.
Exit
The best, with whom we may articulate,
the bear half dined on the gentleman: he's at it
She's apt to learn and thankful for good turns.
Welcome, brave duke! thy friendship makes us fresh.
Soon after that, deprived him of his life;
Do use you for my fool and chat with you,
To love my father all.
He that of greatest works is finisher
Your lord and master did well to make his
You will be there, I know.
have an exposition of sleep come upon me.
If this be nothing.
By seven o'clock I'll get you such a ladder.
What then?
Win us with honest trifles, to betray's
that claims me, one that haunts me, one that will have me.
Ere twice the sun hath made his journal greeting
But not for that dream I on this strange course,
O'erstunk their feet.
Enter CLOTEN
There hath at least five Frenchmen died tonight.
Thou needs must be englutted. Besides, in mercy,
Upon their pillows:
hast caused printing to be used, and, contrary to
hath not my gait in it the measure of the court?
Who's best in favour. Let the music knock it.
And yet I know not how conceit may rob
Must die to-morrow! O injurious love,
For now the devil, that told me I did well,
but his nose is executed and his fire's out.
Straining upon the start. The game's afoot:
Shall bear the olive freely.
During the time Edward the Third did reign.
By holy Mary, Butts, there's knavery:
See where it comes! Behavior, what wert thou
Than in Lord Angelo.
his own head, the king is not to answer it.
At Tewksbury: despair, therefore, and die!
To-morrow morning call some knight to arms
To meet at London London's king in woe.
[Aside]  Shall I hear more, or shall I speak at this?
of your daughter, who is now queen.
You come most carefully upon your hour.
Wilt please you go, my lord?
Fitting my bounty and thy state, I'll give it;
And bade me, if I had a friend that loved her,
therefore you must needs play Pyramus.
What is thy name? and wherefore comest thou hither,
'Youth, whatsoever thou art, thou art but a scurvy fellow.'
Upon my soul, a lie, a wicked lie.
pills to cool the reins. Call her in.
I'll use that tongue I have: if wit flow from't
do thou stand in some by-room, while I question my
of his face sours ripe grapes: when he walks, he
It were done quickly: if the assassination
What say'st thou? hast thou not a word of joy?
creature of sale.
Sung by a fair queen in a summer's bower,
Wherefore is that? and what art thou that darest
So will I turn her virtue into pitch,
Here they fight, and JOAN LA PUCELLE overcomes
Which industry and courage might have saved?
To every eyeball else. Go take this shape
The perilous narrow ocean parts asunder:
Upon the right hand I; keep thou the left.
Cried he? and begg'd a' pardon?
For mine own part, unfold a dangerous speech,
with consolation; your old smock brings forth a new
My noble queen, let former grudges pass,
A poor, infirm, weak, and despised old man:
Beyond all limit of what else i' the world
With observation, the which he vents
Being so near the truth as I will make them,
Yes, indeed do I, fellow.
A calendar, a calendar! look in the almanac; find
Do themselves homage: these fellows have some soul;
Flock to their aid, and still their power increaseth.
Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds.
Great lords, wise men ne'er sit and wail their loss,
From Florence and must here deliver them.
Villain, not for thy life: take up my mistress'
Then spare not the old father. Mighty sir,
Enter CERIMON, with a Servant, and some Persons who have been shipwrecked
One three of them, by their own report, sir, hath
Ay, that change is the spite.
head: what matter have you against me?
And tell them both the circumstance of all;
They'll suck our breath, or pinch us black and blue.
There lie thy part.
he be a whoremonger, and comes before him, he were
Exit from the walls
The cruelty and envy of the people,
I meet the captains at the citadel.
Will you we show our title to the crown?
What is your name?
They think they are mine; and though train'd
Upon the hill of Basan, to outroar
RICHARD
Or sack this country with a mutiny.
No, madam; it is too sharp.
I speak no more than truth.
His man with scissors nicks him like a fool,
Exit HERMIA
And treasure of my loins; then if I would
promise of his life and in the highest compulsion of
Come, stir, stir, stir! the second cock hath crow'd,
O noble judge! O excellent young man!
Tell me what blessings I have here alive,
What got he by that? You have broke his pate with
Accursed, unhappy, wretched, hateful day!
So to most noble Caesar.
And when the rage allays, the rain begins.
The fundamental reasons of this war,
A halter, soldiers! hang him on this tree.
About her lank and all o'er-teemed loins,
Bardolph!
My Lord Sands,
That we have tried the utmost of our friends,
When your eyes roll so: why I should fear I know not,
It is the humane way: the other course
Betid to any creature in the vessel
Till you hear further from me.
O, I am scalded with my violent motion,
[Aside]  He heard not that.
Honourable Menenius, my boy Marcius approaches; for
More, I prithee, more.
pedlar, by education a cardmaker, by transmutation a
I'll not believe but they ascend the sky,
That may be wish'd for.
and how my transformation hath been washed and
have his head on her shoulders for all Messina, as
that shake me thus. Pish! Noses, ears, and lips.
Methinks the realms of England, France and Ireland
But sadly tell me who.
Then every thing includes itself in power,
Urged on the examinations, proofs, confessions
Cries cuckold to my father, brands the harlot
I must away this night toward Padua,
And, Romans, fight for freedom in your choice.
I have remember'd me, thou's hear our counsel.
Here, Hume, take this reward; make merry, man,
I think she means to tangle my eyes too!
Eros, thou yet behold'st me?
I may be negligent, foolish and fearful;
Oh, sir, I did not look so low. To conclude, this
Question her proudly; let thy looks be stern:
And if thou vanquishest, thy words are true;
King Lear hath lost, he and his daughter ta'en:
And the like tender of our love we make,
strong, or so.
Sir, I was an inward of his. A shy fellow was the
Exit MARIA
He must think us some band of strangers i' the
sympathy in years, manners and beauties; all which
I will be angry: what hast thou to do?
Than for to think that I would sink it here.
Obedience: for so work the honey-bees,
learned, like Sir Proteus, to wreathe your arms,
The wild waves whist,
pennyworth on his side be the worst, yet hold thee,
laughing-stocks to other men's humours; I desire you
Have we mow'd down, in tops of all their pride!
They said they were an-hungry; sigh'd forth proverbs,
Ch'ill pick your teeth, zir: come; no matter vor
With grief that's beauty's canker, thou mightst call him
you;--and thus much for greeting. Now, my spruce
Enter Musicians
know the king is full of grief.
That many mazed considerings did throng
And, Prince of Wales, so dare we venture thee,
SCENE III. The same. A room in SHYLOCK'S house.
I must be patient till the heavens look
Than Bolingbroke's return to England;
Sell every man his life as dear as mine,
son? Kings are no less unhappy, their issue not
There is no harm intended to your person,
Drop tears as fast as the Arabian trees
O, I have pass'd a miserable night,
What, will you murder me? Thou gaoler, thou,
confirm my speech.
Montez A cheval! My horse! varlet! laquais! ha!
What, dost thou turn away and hide thy face?
His servant live, and will his vassal die:
Ah, woe is me for Gloucester, wretched man!
Shall love, in building, grow so ruinous?
Stand, ho! yet are we masters of the field:
Suffolk, arise. Welcome, Queen Margaret:
This is the air-drawn dagger which, you said,
Her eye is sick on't: I observe her now.
Hence will I to my ghostly father's cell,
Strikes him
Unto our brother France, and to our sister,
He shows his reason for that: to have a dispatch of
Does the world go round?
Never to marry but by my free leave?
watch; therefore bear you the lantern. This is your
How now! what news?
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
Of Sicily, Sardinia; and I must
Or we poor ghosts will cry
How if your husband start some other where?
All-worthy villain!
You bloody Neroes, ripping up the womb
heart of flattery about me, I cannot so conjure up
That Caesar is more dangerous than he:
Adieu, brave Moor, use Desdemona well.
Unless the gods delight in tragedies?
That lies on Dian's lap! thou visible god,
Here will I stand till Caesar pass along,
And get her leave to part. For not alone
They are fairies; he that speaks to them shall die:
Present mirth hath present laughter;
Enshrines thee in his heart and there erects
Is not his heir a well-deserving son?
voice so that I will roar you as gently as any
To trash for over-topping, new created
SCENE V. Lord Derby's house.
Enter LAUNCELOT
company, and our devices known. In the meantime I
Let me play the lion too: I will roar, that I will
How say you, then; would heart of man once think it?
by boy, servant by servant: the tithe of a hair
Here he comes with your niece: give them way till
So levied as before, against the Polack:
And in the last repeating troublesome,
Mock-vater! vat is dat?
know you the reason?
Good Tom Drum, lend me a handkercher: so,
Beseech you, give me leave to retire myself.
Is so possess'd with guilt: come from thy ward,
And the poor beetle, that we tread upon,
One word in private with you, ere I die.
Let's be no stoics nor no stocks, I pray;
Nature's own shape, of bud, bird, branch, or berry,
Four days ago.
I will prove so, sir, to my power.
Attends the boisterous ruin. Never alone
Half all Cominius' honours are to Marcius.
Makes me from wondering fall to weeping joys;
My good lords both, with all the heed I may.
Does challenge much respect. Come, Desdemona,
Bear him to the rock Tarpeian, and from thence
O, hardness to dissemble!--
So differing in their acts. Yet if I knew
Or Signior Gremio, you, know any such,
Is it even so? Nay, then, I see our wars
And bring me word what he doth say to thee.
But few now living can behold that goodness--
That way inclining, harden'd be the hearts
the camomile, the more it is trodden on the faster
Why you have given me such clear lights of favour,
Sweet sir, much better than I was; I can stand and
Unto his several mistress, which they'll know
And that the lean abhorred monster keeps
The veins unfill'd, our blood is cold, and then
Share with thy birthright! Love all, trust a few,
Perchance are to this business purblind? say.
Good my lord,--
He will not wake.
I' the field prove flatterers, let courts and cities be
the company thou keepest: for, Harry, now I do not
HAMLET moves him to put on his hat
To LAVINIA
That errs in ignorance and not in cunning,
Till your deeds gain them: fairer prove your honour
Bardolph, I say,--
The dove pursues the griffin; the mild hind
Cannot once start me.
Before we make election, give me leave
As done: perseverance, dear my lord,
Of late with passions of some difference,
on one that is neither known of thee nor knows thee!
For princes to come view fair Portia:
There to be used according to your state.
From too much liberty, my Lucio, liberty:
To wash the eyes of kings.
To chide my fortune, and torment myself?
Exeunt
So do the kings of France unto this day;
I find she names my very deed of love;
In celebration of this day with shows,
At large discourse, while here they do remain.
Shall we tell our husbands how we have served him?
come a little nearer this ways.
How now, cousin Hero!
O, God defend me! how am I beset!
You heard her say herself, it was not I.
However, but a folly bought with wit,
find in the regiment of the Spinii one Captain
dishonesty shall appear in me.
And haste is needful in this desperate case.
No warmth, no breath, shall testify thou livest;
The heart of brothers govern in our loves
In earnest, it's true; I heard a senator speak it.
At such a bay, by turn to serve our lust.
Who hath indeed, most like a liberal villain,
What ceremony else?
With truant vows to her own lips he loves,
How now! why start'st thou? what, doth
Ay, sir; a mystery
Then I'll go fetch an axe.
Enter DULL with a letter, and COSTARD
cowl-staff? look, how you drumble! Carry them to
Persuades when speaking fails.
But time hath rooted out my parentage,
bill, give me thy mete-yard, and spare not me.
Villain, what hast thou done?
And when the king comes, offer no violence,
Exit CASSANDRA
Tillyvally. Lady!
and wife is one flesh; and so, my mother. Come, for England!
Heaven ever laid up to make parents happy,
To you, my lord, I come, what lord you will,
danger of kibes?
And though thou now confess thou didst but jest,
The yearly course that brings this day about
A greater power than we can contradict
To load thy merit richly. Call my women:
ANTIPHOLUS
Romeo! my cousin Romeo!
I will go there and do't, i' the court, before
Dream of success and happy victory!
Wear your eye thus, not jealous nor secure:
Of thy adverse pernicious enemy:
Instance, O instance! strong as Pluto's gates;
Till now you have gone on and fill'd the time
For my part, I care not: I say little; but when
the Goodwins, I think they call the place; a very
the tune of 'Two maids wooing a man:' there's
Henceforward do your messages yourself.
But release me from my bands
'They met me in the day of success: and I have
To instruct her fully in those sciences,
Thanks, good Montgomery; but we now forget
You know the very road into his kindness,
Shall daub her lips with her own children's blood;
Have overthrown him.
A great sign, sir, that he will look sad.
majesty, in my conscience.
Not far, one Muli lives, my countryman;
In every good thing.
And she a fair divided excellence,
To excuse the current of thy cruelty.
Princes, enough, so please you.
Long in our court have made their amorous sojourn,
Was my great father-in-law, renowned Warwick;
the letters of Antigonus found with it which they
To have her name repeated: all her deserving
To Gregory de Cassado, to conclude,
I see, sir, you are liberal in offers
There's for thy pains.
If they deny him justice: twenty merchants,
How now, fellow!
And pity her for her good father's sake;
May be more free.
In the county of Gloucester, justice of peace and
Enter Shepherd, Clown, MOPSA, DORCAS, and others, with POLIXENES and CAMILLO disguised
I should cut off the nobles for their lands,
Limit each leader to his several charge,
It is a pretty mocking of the life.
confirmed countenance. I saw him run after a gilded
How 'tis abroad. Pompey is strong at sea;
Good morrow, Kate; for that's your name, I hear.
Yourself shall go between 's: the mean time, lady,
I am afeard you make a wanton of me.
for consulships?
And here he comes. What shall be next,
forbearance till the spied of his rage goes
A madness, of which her life's in danger. Heavens,
Paris should do some vengeance on the Greeks:
Nor here provincial. My business in this state
As, in reproof of many tales devised,
Too like the sire for ever being good.
There's a palm presages chastity, if nothing else.
When we are both accoutred like young men,
And ask'd thee mercy for't.
If there be any in this assembly, any dear friend of
Is he won yet?
Run from her guardage to the sooty bosom
She will beshrew me much that Romeo
And let heaven
Belike you mean to make a puppet of me.
mercy, friend; go you with me, and I will use your
Away, thou rag, thou quantity, thou remnant;
Attending but the signal to begin.
And if I be, sir, is it any offence?
For I repent me that the duke is slain.
COUNTESS
Dost thou look up?
It doth import him much to speak with me.
To raise a present sum: therefore go forth;
Why, I, in this weak piping time of peace,
Had been the very sum of my confession:
me to the semblance I put on; with the which I doubt
Come, cousin, canst thou quake, and change thy colour,
Chewing the food of sweet and bitter fancy,
Shaked like a coward.
to-night: I shall beseech your lordship to remain
That hath more scars of sorrow in his heart
Have a care of your entertainments: there is a
I never saw a better-fashion'd gown,
And shamefully by you my hopes are butcher'd.
SCENE III. London. Before a tavern.
Impatiently I burn with thy desire;
No, be assured you shall not find me, daughter,
Makes the night morning, and the noon-tide night.
I love thee infinitely. But hark you, Kate;
Dispatch, I prithee.
Say, you chose him
Try what my credit can in Venice do:
Lady, you utter madness, and not sorrow.
Pardon's the word to all.
What if it should be so?
Exeunt QUEEN and Ladies
him our commission; talk no more.
To accept my grief and whilst this poor wealth lasts
To suffer with the body: I'll forbear;
With all their honourable point of ignorance
The sly slow hours shall not determinate
He has his health and ampler strength indeed
With Demetrius.
For kissing of their feet; yet always bending
Till he behold them form'd in the applause
Made it a fool and beggar. The two kings,
Ha! wherefore?
Enter ORLANDO and JAQUES
That longs for every thing that he can come by.
Than most have of his age.
But a trifle neither, in good faith, if the learned
To hug with swine, to seek sweet safety out
feed on the air, I am one that am nourished by my
And save poor me, the weaker.
we shall never see the end of it. Who goes there?
A load would sink a navy, too much honour:
Farewell, good Launcelot.
And let me the canakin clink
What, my old worshipful old master? yes, marry, sir:
That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
His dignity and duty both cast off--
love believe it; which, I warrant, she is apter to
so earnest
After the bloody fray at Wakefield fought,
He is attended with a desperate train;
But I will tell you at some meeter season:
shouldst feel
Beyond the mark of thought: and the high gods,
And not a man of them shall have the grace,
an emperor's side and command him tasks.
What best is boded me to mischief! I
Peace to your highness!
Art thou not second woman in the realm,
Well, God-a-mercy.
Whether your grace be worthy, yea or no,
Exeunt
And now forthwith shall articles be drawn
They told me, here, at dead time of the night,
'twas for shift.
Whose tongue more poisons than the adder's tooth!
Out of the dukedom and confer fair Milan
Must have some private conference; but be near at hand,
Because we brave her: come.
From Clifford's and Northumberland's pursuit:
Were now the general of our gracious empress,
O, fie upon them! Some such squire he was
In their embracement, as they grew together;
and keep him tame and get to Naples with him, he's a
They descend
Ascend, brave Talbot; we will follow thee.
The use of your own virtues, for the which
Exeunt DOGBERRY and VERGES
The violence of either grief or joy
I am afraid to think what I have done;
Bounding between the two moist elements,
Have ears more deaf than adders to the voice
Whate'er I read to her, I'll plead for you
Could he get me? Sir Robert could not do it:
You wish me well.
My friend when he must need me. I do know him
Exit BALTHASAR
I came into the world with my legs forward:
Here on this molehill will I sit me down.
Sir, this young fellow's mother could: whereupon
You had musty victual, and he hath holp to eat it:
afternoon?
And, as thou seest, ourselves in heavy plight.
Exit
You are too indulgent. Let us grant, it is not
die all slaves, than that Caesar were dead, to live
But not my griefs; still am I king of those.
The region of my breast; which forced such way,
Betwixt thy begging and my meditation.
De foot, madame; et de coun.
Do not plunge thyself too far in anger, lest thou
It is Cassandra.
Till thou canst quit thee by thy brothers mouth
Being skilless in these parts; which to a stranger,
And will this brother's wager frankly play.
In titles, honours and promotions,
I give you; and gold confound you howsoe'er! Amen.
The anchor is deep: will that humour pass?
Good Hermia, do not be so bitter with me.
And fly like thought from them to me again.
Friend Launcelot, what's the news?
suppers and sleeping-hours excepted: it is the
Or did he make the jest against his will?
That hath in it no profit but the name.
God bless you, sir.
May have some scope to beat, or else I swoon
That Thaisa am I, supposed dead
Helen, to you our minds we will unfold:
Living to time.
pack, a conspiracy against me: now shall the devil
Is all our company here?
Truly, the more to blame he: we were Christians
From thence unto the place of execution:
My purse, my person, my extremest means,
The king shall do it: must he be deposed?
Shall be the war that Henry means to use.
Perge, good Master Holofernes, perge; so it shall
Here shall he see
Prithee, hold thy peace.
You are a very simplicity 'oman: I pray you peace.
Gives the warrant
'Tis but the boldness of his hand, haply, which his
What then!
a devil, and no monster: I will leave him; I have no
Some haste, my lord! well, fare you well, my lord:
Flourish, and shout
And if he speak of Buckingham, pray, tell him
For every man that Bolingbroke hath press'd
Was Cassius born. Give me thy hand, Messala:
The strangeness of his alter'd countenance?
Soil our addition; and indeed it takes
Andronicus, stain not thy tomb with blood:
The triple pillar of the world transform'd
I am as woful as Virginius was,
kind o' thing than a fool: and yet I would not be
Thy substance, valued at the highest rate,
To rescue my two brothers from their death:
Then, seeing 'twas he that made you to depose,
As may dishonour him; take heed of that;
Yet now, I must confess, that duty done,
Of all their conference. If she find him not,
A stone is soft as wax,--tribunes more hard than stones;
But bring they what they will and what they can,
That, Escalus.
You scorn: believe me, 'twere best I did give o'er.
husband have stables enough, you'll see he shall
He needs must see himself.
and 'no' to every thing that I said!--'Ay' and 'no'
What, think you much to pay two thousand crowns,
SCENE IV. Another part of the forest.
Question your grace the late ambassadors,
Yea, sir, we hope.
would be sorry should be thus foolishly lost at a
a Cressida to this Troilus.
Means and attendants and my loving greetings
If I pervert your course. Who's here?
Answer to us.
We thank you, lords. But I am not your king
This ring was mine; and, when I gave it Helen,
Titus Andronicus, the people of Rome,
Mark me.
Come, Marcus, let us go. Publius, follow me.
From hence, from Silvia and from me thy friend.
end of our show.
Prejudicates the business and would seem
And what strength I have's mine own,
Stay, lords and gentlemen, and pluck no more,
Being an obstruct 'tween his lust and him.
Indeed, I never shall be satisfied
But is all this for your father?
Give me your hand;
How absolute the knave is! we must speak by the
Would I propose to achieve her whom I love.
beggar. Then have we here young Dizy, and young
If it be found so, some will dear abide it.
Though bladed corn be lodged and trees blown down;
The rest are princes, barons, lords, knights, squires,
And the huge army of the world's desires,--
Should strike such terror to his enemies.
He that conceals him, death.
Alarum. Re-enter MESSALA, with BRUTUS, CATO, STRATO, VOLUMNIUS, and LUCILIUS
O Proteus, let this habit make thee blush!
with what poor judgment he hath now cast her off
Richard of Bordeaux, by me hither brought.
him carried away; and, which is more, within these
him partake in the glory of the action: and not
When he had carried Rome and that we look'd
Why, then, methinks 'tis time to smile again.
And so I wish'd thy body might my heart:
Those which I heaved to head!--the good Posthumus--
Let us entreat, by honour of his name,
Black night o'ershade thy day, and death thy life!
hose? What did he when thou sawest him? What said
I am an humble suitor to your virtues;
Exeunt all but BUCKINGHAM
Such temperate order in so fierce a cause,
Though peril to my modesty, not death on't,
Ah, but some natural notes about her body,
Plain and not honest is too harsh a style.
I'll write it straight;
them no longer than yesterday: a very honest woman,
And my appointments have in them a need
triumphantly tread on thy country's ruin,
Be stamp'd upon it.
I see a man here needs not live by shifts,
And his brave son being twain.
How canst thou try them so?
Has the king this?
If it do come to pass
Half heart, half hand, half Hector comes to seek
Why thy canonized bones, hearsed in death,
I wish I could be made so many men,
Or more afraid to fight, than is the appellant,
But such is the infection of the time,
And for thy maintenance commits his body
Why, did you take her in green?
Exeunt
And made defeat of her virginity,--
Patience is stale, and I am weary of it.
No; rather I will go to Benedick
Exit
Sir Robert never holp to make this leg.
Alas, the part I had in Woodstock's blood
Now he is gone, my lord, you need not fear.
For she was yielded there.
That have preserved her welfare in my blood;
[Reciting to himself]  'When we for recompense have
fire cannot melt out of me: I will die in it at the stake.
Who, cherish'd in your breasts, will sting
speech, enter into that brake: and so every one
As if we were God's spies: and we'll wear out,
Carnally, she says.
As to your soul seems good. Give me your hand:
Exit HUME
May think anon it moves.
O, Signior Balthazar, either at flesh or fish,
hate us youth: down with them: fleece them.
And manacle the bear-ward in their chains,
Fair Lady Cressid,
With several applications; nature and sickness
and on at pleasure.
He was a wight of high renown,
Beyond all man's endeavours: my endeavours
'Item: She brews good ale.'
It must be 'se offendendo;' it cannot be else. For
Why, in good time.
Why, our battalion trebles that account:
Assurance bless your thoughts!
From which advantage shall we cut him off,
I would not tell you what I would, my lord:
Tut, when struck'st thou one blow in the field?
By'r lady, sir, and some dogs will catch well.
jerkin, a pair of old breeches thrice turned, a pair
O, when she had writ it and was reading it over, she
Why they are so, but, like to village-curs,
O, above measure false!
Where liest o' nights, Timon?
Ay, this is he that took King Henry's chair,
No, on the barren mountains let him starve;
Re-enter ARIEL, invisible
What, hath thy fiery heart so parch'd thine entrails
and bitumed ready.
Omission to do what is necessary
And, in good time! now will we break with him.
Of golden metal that must round my brow
Sweet practiser, thy physic I will try,
Yet I do find it so; for to be plain,
These tears are my sweet Rutland's obsequies:
That thou, vouchsafing here to visit me,
Never so needful on the earth of France,
Murder of Gonzago?
Exeunt
Will it not be?
light, the purse too light, being drawn of
He'll spare none.
No, with no more than if we heard that England
Under the covering of a careful night,
'Tis three o'clock; and, Romans, yet ere night
Tell him thy entertainment: look, thou say
May not an ass know when the cart
Go to, i' faith; an thou wilt needs thrust thy neck
The thrice-victorious Lord of Falconbridge;
Tell us, old man, how shall we be employ'd?
'What my great-grandfather and his grandsire got
On both our parts. Call yonder fellow hither.
Recall not what we give, and therein may
Ah, gentle Clifford, kill me with thy sword,
Which makes my whitest part black. The will of heaven
What woman-post is this? hath she no husband
Though yet he never harm'd me, here I quit him:
reason it thus and thus, yet nature finds itself
In very brief, the suit is impertinent to myself, as
Lie in the interpretation of the time:
Well, as time shall try: 'In time the savage bull
Already at a point, was setting forth.
I am none of these, my lord; I beseech your pardon.
Stood in your action.
To view the sick and feeble parts of France:
Unarm, sweet Hector.
If tinkers may have leave to live,
my blindness, who cannot see many a fair French city
My gracious sovereign, my most loving liege!
osiers bow'd.
Silence bestows that virtue on it, madam.
Marry, so I mean, sweet Katharina, in thy bed:
Make it a darling like your precious eye;
found his heir?
My master is of churlish disposition
Unbated and envenom'd: the foul practise
Re-enter LEONINE
And can do nought but wail her darling's loss,
This is your wife.
Exeunt MARIA and Attendants
Exit Gentlewoman
Even so. Heaven keep your honour!
No, not till Thursday; there is time enough.
That horse that I so carefully have dress'd!
Most throughly to be winnow'd, where my chaff
Re-enter JULIET, above
And gentlemen of blood and quality.
No woman may approach his silent court:
I will not hear her speak; away with her!
To doff their dire distresses.
Do not abuse my master's bounty by
He will come straight. Look you lay home to him:
Take away this villain; shut him up.
him; and a third drowns him.
have you wearied your parishioners withal, and never
Besides yourself, to like of. But I prattle
And still keep eyes upon her. So, good night:
To add the death of you.
The flattering index of a direful pageant;
Like interrupted waters and o'erbear
Canst thou not minister to a mind diseased,
I hear some noise within; dear love, adieu!
Can nothing render but allegiant thanks,
Doth move the murmuring lips of discontent
break promise with him and make a fool of him.
Whose boughs did bend with fruit: but in one night,
Pulcher.
To his own scandal.
To ruffle in the commonwealth of Rome.
Will you remember?
Enter the PRINCE OF WALES and FALSTAFF
You are deceived; 'tis not so.
No more, no more: worse than the sun in March,
Hath in the skirts of Norway here and there
Wilt thou still talk?
whisper o'er a couplet or two of most sage saws.
With this same play, against your nuptial.
'When as a lion's whelp shall, to himself unknown,
There greet in silence, as the dead are wont,
Or live in peace abandon'd and despised!
I am too blunt and saucy: here's my knee:
Draws us a profit from all things we see;
I will stand betwixt you and danger.
Making and marring fortunes. You did know
Farewell, sweet lord, and sister.
Enter an English Herald
Does purpose honour to you no less flowing
For there will be a world of water shed
could then have looked on him without the help of
I assure you, Carthage.
Exit
Wool of bat and tongue of dog,
He's loved of the distracted multitude,
And like as rigor of tempestuous gusts
You Edward, shall unto my Lord Cobham,
The region of my heart: be Kent unmannerly,
They are as innocent as grace itself:
Caesar, thy thoughts
Which have, like unscour'd armour, hung by the wall
Is it but thought so? what are they that think it?
Being thereto not compell'd.
His guard have brought him thither.
And look how well my garments sit upon me;
Master lieutenant, now that God and friends
Exeunt
will sully: in Barbary, sir, it cannot come to so much.
He robs himself that spends a bootless grief.
Will it never be morning?
Wilt thou rest damned? God help thee, shallow man!
My lord, my lord,--
That thou nor none of thine shall be let in.
That even now he cries aloud for him.
Sir William Brandon, you shall bear my standard.
But doth suffer a sea-change
I spy life peering; but I dare not say
O, my lord!
Room for the incensed Worthies!
Corrupters of my faith! you shall no more
I'll make you feed on berries and on roots,
That I may give the local wound a name
I lose your company: therefore forbear awhile.
To teach a teacher ill beseemeth me.
To bloody thoughts and to revenge, I chose
Exit MARDIAN
Enter a Serving-man
And so
Deal between thee and me! for even now
conduct of the lady. I am no fighter. I have heard
Our master and mistress seeks you; come, away, away!
And frantic outrage, end thy damned spleen;
Corrupted, and exempt from ancient gentry?
Lo, she is one of this confederacy!
A second Hector, for his grim aspect,
This man, with lime and rough-cast, doth present
I am able to endure much.
am so good a proficient in one quarter of an hour,
Here's one to a very doleful tune, how a usurer's
Are grown so catching.
Indeed, good lady,
Alas, he is too young! yet he looks successfully.
as small as a wand: this hat is Nan, our maid: I
Madam, this glove.
Rest on my word, and let not discontent
What's the matter, good Mistress Page?
And here we wander in illusions:
I am his first-born son, that was the last
Stand up, stand up; stand, and you be a man:
Methinks, false hearts should never have sound legs,
Why, look where he comes; and my good man too: he's
Stand not upon the order of your going,
I must then to the Grecians?
This same Cranmer's
Thou shalt ere long be free.
Gramercies, Tranio, well dost thou advise.
ACT II
Service.
Thou and these woes were all for Rosaline:
[Aside]  A little more than kin, and less than kind.
Before I have shook off the regal thoughts
Sleep for a week; for the next night, I warrant,
Shall we shog? the king will be gone from
The king is full of grace and fair regard.
Diable! Jack Rugby,--mine host de Jarteer,--have I
Exeunt
Sir, you have saved my longing, and I feed
Provided that you weed your better judgments
Indeed, la, 'tis a noble child.
trial of you only. Therefore fasten your ear on my
Turn him to any cause of policy,
These miseries are more than may be borne.
Go, sirs, take the basket again on your shoulders:
Now, great Thetis' son!
From any private malice in his end,
The one in motley here,
Heaven stops the nose at it and the moon winks,
Of the all-building law; and that there were
That threw her in the sea. Make a fire within:
The other must be held the worthier.
I will be here again, even with a thought.
Well, let it strike.
My gentle Marcius, worthy Caius, and
My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth!
For what you see is but the smallest part
And let them work. The nature of our people,
A thousand moral paintings I can show
What, is my Richard both in shape and mind
And silence those whom this vile brawl distracted.
Whiles he is vaulting variable ramps,
I hope it is some pardon or reprieve
This is the night
Of which there is not one, I dare avow,
Or gentleman, that is not freely merry,
To have his pomp and all what state compounds
But for a satisfaction of my thought;
I should not need, if you were gentle Brutus.
That from a shelf the precious diadem stole,
And, in my company, my brother Gloucester;
His sceptre shows the force of temporal power,
If to have done the thing you gave in charge
Exeunt
And cannot say, you dare not. Good Camillo,
Wherein I lived, the greatest prince o' the world,
DON
Here's a strange alteration!
He after honour hunts, I after love:
him, foul collier!
Unreconciled as yet to heaven and grace,
cony-catched in this business: I dare swear this
appearance of a naked blind boy in her naked seeing
I do remember well where I should be,
Exeunt
Nan Page my daughter and my little son
Each syllable that breath made up between them.
I fear 'twill be revenged:
Good leave, good Philip.
More wonderful, when angels are so angry.
Peace, drums!
Like to a censer in a barber's shop:
And nightly, meadow-fairies, look you sing,
I should not urge it half so faithfully.
ACT V
We'll make an instrument of this, omit
I depart,--that, as I slew my best lover for the
I have heard in some sort of thy miseries.
Come like shadows, so depart!
That shall enmesh them all.
Proclaimed a strumpet: with immodest hatred
gown: he sees thee not.
Set forth in your pursuit.
I do forswear them; and I here protest,
by threes. He's to make his requests by
aucun prisonnier, neanmoins, pour les ecus que vous
And here, with all good will, with all my heart,
Of Herne the hunter, let us not forget.
Keepers, convey him hence, and I myself
That every nice offence should bear his comment.
No, Antony, take the lot: but, first
How could that be?
And let thy tongue be equal with thy heart.
And all the other by-dependencies,
Yet hath a woman's kindness over-ruled:
Consider it not so deeply.
His legs bestrid the ocean: his rear'd arm
Of time, of numbers and due course of things,
I have no words:
Ever shall be fortunate.
Take our good meaning, for our judgment sits
But when shall we set the savage bull's horns on
The nephews to old Norway, Fortinbras.
Left her in her tears, and dried not one of them
If e'er thou stand at mercy of my sword,
I am most joyful, madam, such good dreams
To give thee all, and in his waning age
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS, disguised, with others as Fairies
When we are old as you? when we shall hear
Come pat betwixt too early and too late
so with him.
You are my mother, madam; would you were,--
Must court'sy at the censure:--O boys, this story
friar. But no more of this. Canst thou tell if
Probal to thinking and indeed the course
I shall remember:
four times. Now I, to comfort him, bid him a'
Show duty, as mistaken all this while
Why,
O'er whom both sovereign power and father's voice
Let it be hid. Gratiano, keep the house,
She is a most sweet lady.
Which spongy April at thy hest betrims,
The old Anchises bear, so from the waves of Tiber
Shaken with sorrows in ungrateful Rome.
So long a breeding as his white beard came to,
Now, what a thing it is to be an ass!
For any benefit that points to me,
But, were you wedded, you would bear some sway.
Will come on very slowly. I am sorry,
Thou art an unjust man in saying so: thou or any
Hail, Rome, victorious in thy mourning weeds!
Which the commission of thy years and art
Survives; to whom, thyself art witness,
As faithfully as I deny the devil.
Be thy mouth or black or white,
Bring forth men-children only;
Directly to his good? Divinity of hell!
Re-enter MARCIUS, bleeding, assaulted by the enemy
You dote on her that cares not for your love.
So, there goes our protector in a rage.
That he's a made-up villain.
So might your grace's person be in danger.
KING HENRY enters with his power. Alarum to the battle. Then enter DOUGLAS and SIR WALTER BLUNT
my discretion so weakly. Will you laugh
For you and I are past our dancing days:
To suck the sweets of sweet philosophy.
No, my chuck. Eros, come; mine armour, Eros!
To stubborn critics, apt, without a theme,
How! Julia!
you.
Take heed, lest by your heat you burn yourselves.
stratagem.
Or I'll so maul you and your toasting-iron,
Why dost thou run so many mile about,
Hugh? no; he gives me the proverbs and the
No, gentle madam; I unworthy am
Let him for ever go:--let him not--Charmian,
stones; by gar, he shall not have a stone to throw
have brought you from Venice. Watch you to-night;
Ay,
And merry larks are ploughmen's clocks,
I have no way, and therefore want no eyes;
Dumb jewels often in their silent kind
In poor beseeming; 'twas a fitment for
make an end of my dinner; there's pippins and cheese to come.
And say it is not so.
Fire and brimstone!
We will be short with you. 'Tis his highness' pleasure,
Teach us, sweet madam, for our rude transgression
I love Lavinia more than all the world.
Which issued from my other angel husband
In hugger-mugger to inter him: poor Ophelia
Well moused, Lion.
Thou bear's thy heavy riches but a journey,
Uncle, your grace knows how to bear with him.
But what prevention?
That beauty am I bless'd with which you see.
Turns to the sourest and most deadly hate:
O shame! where is thy blush? Rebellious hell,
twenty lascivious turtles ere one chaste man.
God be with you, sir; I will.
Do; cuff him soundly, but never draw thy sword.
That wishing well had not a body in't,
Exeunt
Di faciant laudis summa sit ista tuae!
Were't not affection chains thy tender days
We have met with foes
We charge you, in God's name, and the king's,
SCENE I. Before PROSPERO'S cell.
I see no reason but supposed Lucentio
I think it be two o'clock.
Manage this war.
And then the moon, like to a silver bow
O, let me teach thee! for my father's sake,
For he himself is subject to his birth:
But there's more in me than thou understand'st.
Supply your present wants and take no doit
Whose hot incursions and great name in arms
I Costard, running out, that was safely within,
Enter a Soldier, seeking TIMON
What's this? a sleeve? 'tis like a demi-cannon:
Which for Antenor we deliver you:
The man that mocks at it and sets it light.
I think he be transform'd into a beast;
Knocking within
Of any bold or noble enterprise,
Protest their first of manhood.
I would I were at home.
His lady banish'd, and a limb lopp'd off.
bleeding in me. I speak not out of weak surmises,
Caius and Valentine, lay hands on them.
Down on thy knees, thank the holy gods as loud
cannot get, he may lawfully deal for--his wife's soul.
To some Attendants
Since which she was removed to Kimbolton,
Of this escape and whither they are bound;
My fortunes and my friends at stake required
To seal her father's eyes up close as oak-
It is a sword of Spain, the ice-brook's temper:--
Marry, thus: when it stands well with him, it
Who will not change a raven for a dove?
Prithee now,
pretending in her discoveries of dishonour: in few,
For I must ever doubt, though ne'er so sure--
What sin you do to save a brother's life,
Speak, good Master Brook: I shall be glad to be
As thou'lt desire; and then myself, I chiefly,
Exit
Whose present grace to present slaves and servants
When we would bring him on to some confession
Let me behold thy face. Surely, this man
First, all you peers of Greece, go to my tent;
By her is poisoned; she hath confess'd it.
The time of universal peace is near:
Thy beck might from the bidding of the gods
Who could be out, being before his beloved mistress?
Re-enter Clown
So be thy fortune in this royal fight!
Comfort, dear mother: God is much displeased
Small as an eunuch, or the virgin voice
Let fame, that all hunt after in their lives,
indistinguishable cur, no.
And power i' the truth o' the cause.
O noble lord, bethink thee of thy birth,
The carved-bone face on a flask.
Now, Salisbury, for thee, and for the right
Was fairer than his grandam and as chaste
Come, Stanley, shall we go?
To lie close by his honest bones: but now
I gave this unto Julia.
The penance lies on you, if these fair ladies
I'll rhyme you so eight years together, dinners and
Virginity, like an old courtier, wears her cap out
No, in good troth, Bianca.
As mice by lions--hath pick'd out an act,
You find him like a soldier: do not take
Prince Dauphin, you shall stay with us in Rouen.
Hear the ambassadors.
So is the fame.
Have you forgot me?
The gates of Milan, and, i' the dead of darkness,
With labour; then by-peeping in an eye
As huge as high Olympus.
My words would bandy her to my sweet love,
All these the enemies to our poor bark.
For then this land was famously enrich'd
Till that the conquering wine hath steep'd our sense
You're well met once again.
The secret mischiefs that I set abroach
Re-enter DUKE VINCENTIO
Is't possible? Sits the wind in that corner?
folly! I am afraid this great lubber, the world,
Wilt thou go dig a grave to find out war,
Only the adulterous Antony, most large
New matter still?
With that face?
The question did at first so stagger me,
So far exceed all instance, all discourse,
Well, I have told you enough of this: for my part,
The articles o' the combination drew
For emulation now, who shall be nearest,
To speak of Perdita, now grown in grace
all. Wither, garden; and be henceforth a
Endure a further view.
Nay, look not big, nor stamp, nor stare, nor fret;
I had a father, Mistress Anne; my uncle can tell you
No, no; when Fortune means to men most good,
To keep our great Saint George's feast withal:
Might from our quiet confines fright fair peace
Let her shine as gloriously
beggar's. The catastrophe is a nuptial: on whose
Her words y-clad with wisdom's majesty,
O, if to fight for king and commonweal
And this distilled liquor drink thou off;
And you.
Shall I endure the sight of Somerset?
Ere twice in murk and occidental damp
Which makes me think that this Antonio,
And they it were that ravished our sister:
Tell me, heavenly bow,
Take then thy bond, take thou thy pound of flesh;
vinegar and pepper in't.
have more flesh than another man, and therefore more
Or came it by request and such fair question
Bid me farewell, and let me hear thee going.
Say, what thing? what thing?
Stronger than ever law could make: this secret
and, for mine own part, I have not a case of lives:
No more infected with my country's love
To be thy lord and master: seek the king;
dish of some three-pence; your honours have seen
Love make his heart of flint that you shall love;
DON
I'll have some proof. Her name, that was as fresh
The king is set from London; and the scene
Have I the aspic in my lips? Dost fall?
She hath forsworn to love, and in that vow
Come, mistress, now perforce we will enjoy
I'll not meddle with it: it is a dangerous thing: it
To scatter and disperse the giddy Goths,
Exeunt, fighting
The king would speak with Cornwall; the dear father
And death unloads thee. Friend hast thou none;
Got 'tween the lawful sheets.
If thy offences were upon record,
parcel of their feast, and to be executed ere they
I will swear by it that you love me; and I will make
Troilus, thou coward Troilus, show thy head!
Enter PAGE and MISTRESS PAGE
To make divorce of their incorporate league;
Sir?
Faith, I'll home to-morrow, Sir Toby: your niece
Thou smiling while he knit his angry brows:
You have heard of my poor services, i' the love
Nor I, my lord.
Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother.
How! traitor!
The Spaniard, tied blood and favour to her,
Before we met or that a stroke was given,
My brother dead! I know thou dost but jest:
That men must lay their murders on your neck.
Your very worshipful and loving friends,
How now, good Blunt? thy looks are full of speed.
Which his hell-govern'd arm hath butchered!
Why, my young cousin, it is good to grow.
Entreat you to your wonted furtherance?
I had an Edward, till a Richard kill'd him;
And some will mourn in ashes, some coal-black,
Re-quicken'd what in flesh was fatigate,
The world is still deceived with ornament.
But praying, to enrich his watchful soul:
As easily as a king.
SCENE I. Antioch. A room in the palace.
A dram of worth be drawn.
Faith, we met, and found the quarrel was upon the
him for me, he's more and more a cat.
Unto a poor but worthy gentleman: she's wedded;
Lies in his bed, walks up and down with me,
But that my heart's on future mischief set,
Honest Iago, that look'st dead with grieving,
Exeunt
Thy tongue, thy face, thy limbs, actions and spirit,
Whereas reproof, obedient and in order,
Hark in thine ear.
And I'll renew me in his fall. But, hark!
Than to perform it first.
How proud I am of thee and of thy gifts
I come, in kindness and unfeigned love,
You shall advise me in all for Cleopatra.
With letters of your love to her at large.
ill.
In praising Antony, I have dispraised Caesar.
What a pied ninny's this! Thou scurvy patch!
Who first raised head against usurping Richard,
ring. Masters, you are all welcome. We'll e'en
Upon offenders, hath exceeded law,
My Antony is away.
As hot Lord Percy is on fire to go.
And, lords, accept this hearty kind embrace:
Like exhibition thou shalt have from me.
Not pay thee.
shall see how I'll handle her.
Who chants a doleful hymn to his own death,
Me rather had my heart might feel your love
Exit
he cannot by the duello avoid it: but he has
And said 'Commend me to my valiant brother.'
I'll leave you.
She is fair; and so is Julia that I love--
All these accused him strongly; which he fain
up of these men's bills.
What, wilt thou not? Where is that devil's butcher,
limb or joint, shall pass Pompey the Great; the
So should I rob my sweet sons of their fee:
With such bedecking ornaments of praise?
To lesson me and tell me some good mean
Fool, fool, fool, I say!
Now the fair goddess, Fortune,
Make such unquiet, that the ship
Or by some other.
This disease is beyond my practise: yet I have known
Who stays it still withal?
How France and Frenchmen might be kept in awe,
Sooner this sword shall plough thy bowels up.
Enough is shown: a cypress, not a bosom,
Where?
And with a green and yellow melancholy
one Cassio entreats her a little favour of speech:
What seem I that I am not?
What power is in Agrippa,
Caesar shall forth: the things that threaten'd me
I know it well.
Here comes a parcel of our hopeful booty,
Does he not wear a great round beard, like a
To DULL
Kissing her
Are daily given to ennoble those
Will 't hold? will 't hold?
Falstaff's being here; for I never saw him so gross
I shall have glory by this losing day
You will have Gremio to keep you fair.
Please you, sir,
And take the great-grown traitor unawares:
Well, Time is the old justice that examines all such
than legs, nor no more shoes than feet; nay,
Then, brother John of Lancaster, to you
Shall mistress be of it, save I alone.
Sailors, my lord, they say; I saw them not:
Let me unseal the letter.
Forbear the absence of your king:
That I'll straight do; and, knowing myself again,
To speak so indirectly I am loath:
And, Montague, come you this afternoon,
worship's a wanton! Well, heaven forgive you and all
If that be true, I shall see my boy again;
Journeys end in lovers meeting,
An honest country lord, as I am, beaten
With one of Priam's daughters.
But, as I say, such as become a soldier,
The harm of unscann'd swiftness, will too late
I will make it good how you dare, with what you
Return so much, I have shook my head and wept;
The husbandry and manage of my house
If in her marriage my consent be missing,
his cases, his tenures, and his tricks? why does he
runs presently mad. God help the noble Claudio! if
No; dark shall be my light and night my day;
I will write.
What news with thee, AEmilius?
Were never orphans had so dear a loss!
Lord mayor,--
From such a filthy vice: say to thyself,
In Syracusa was I born, and wed
Nay, do so; for, indeed, I have lost command,
I hold you as a thing ensky'd and sainted.
Myself and what is mine to you and yours
They sleep
But first I beg my pardon, the young lord
None do you like but an effeminate prince,
I would have been a-bed an hour ago.
Which not to anger bent, is music and sweet fire.
De nails, madame.
What is the trust or strength of foolish man?
SCENE VI. Street near the city gate.
Cromwell, I charge thee, fling away ambition:
All's one. Good faith, how foolish are our minds!
Food to the suck'd and hungry lioness?
While it is hot, I'll put it to the issue.
There were no suns to borrow of.
My fortunes--parentage--good parentage--
That were a jest indeed! they have not so little
And dull to all proceedings. A deflower'd maid!
He chides to hell and bids the other grow
A man, the worst about you.
Here on my knee, before high heaven and you,
Therefore I part with him, and part with him
To be suspected, framed to make women false.
My daughter's mother thinks it with her soul.
If he can carry't thus!
Where's the Prince Dauphin? I have news for him.
Which to you shall seem probable, of every
Out of my door, you witch, you hag, you baggage, you
Yours by this hand: and to see how he prizes the
Each drop of us.
Together with his mangled Myrmidons,
all free men? As Caesar loved me, I weep for him;
cry  'hem!' and bid you play it off. To conclude, I
me see't! I'll in, I'll in. Follow your friend's
Come, sir, I pray you, go.
He, like a puling cuckold, would drink up
A dreadful oath, sworn with a solemn tongue!
The Count Melun, a noble lord of France,
The business asketh silent secrecy.
That he should be my fool and I his fate.
Performers of this heinous, bloody deed?
To do a great right, do a little wrong,
To save your subjects from such massacre
To fast, to study, and to see no woman;
the said Henry shall espouse the Lady Margaret,
What can from Italy annoy us; but
With circumstance and oaths so to deny
With eyes severe and beard of formal cut,
With good acceptance of his majesty;
I' the plain way of his merit.
Honest, my lord!
No, no, no.
I shall know, sir, when I have done it.
Your worship had like to have given us one, if you
Wide o' the bow hand! i' faith, your hand is out.
Most useful for thy country.
Exeunt all, except Clown
He met the night-mare, and her nine-fold;
Take your rapier, Jack; I vill tell you how I vill kill him.
What then became of them I cannot tell
Against what should ensue.
I' the swathing-clothes the other, from their nursery
That she may long live here, God say amen!
Where is thy lady? Or, by Jupiter,--
To bind our loves up in a holy band;
And all that love his follies.
ye, or ise try whether your costard or my ballow be
For your claim, fair sister,
Then I am yours.
Exeunt Hostess and Boy
Is she worth keeping? why, she is a pearl,
Lord, let me never have a cause to sigh,
I said so, dear Katharine; and I must not blush to
creatures else to fat us, and we fat ourselves for
Wrinkles forbid!
That should deracinate such savagery;
Swallows have built
the least, if the love of soldier can suffice,--
ACT II
You have been always called a merciful man, partner.
gentleman of Athens, thy very bountiful good lord
people, who best know him, that I am altogether
To speak and purpose not; since what I well intend,
And cry 'Content' to that which grieves my heart,
Be patient, they are friends, Ratcliff and Lovel.
Nor keep his princely heart from Richard's hand.
speak no more of him; you'll be whipped for taxation
And bid us welcome to your sheep-shearing,
His name is Romeo, and a Montague;
Holy Gonzalo, honourable man,
For though you lay here in this goodly chamber,
I thank you, good my lord; and thank you all.
Cassio's a proper man: let me see now:
SCENE VI. A chamber in a farmhouse adjoining the castle.
That it doth hate what gets it.
I'll write to him a very taunting letter,
When he is earth'd, hath here almost persuade,--
So under fortune, which you thought had been
Suspecting that we both were in a house
What wouldst thou have with me?
Ah, sirs, consider, he that set you on
swoon when he showed me your handkerchief?
O, that a lady, of one man refused.
What services canst thou do?
A wretched soul, bruised with adversity,
Of audience nor desire shall fail, so she
Caesar, I shall.
In cases of defence 'tis best to weigh
Take them in.
The cheapest of us is ten groats too dear.
A buzzing of a separation
Renowned queen, with patience calm the storm,
sack as I to-day? Wilt thou tell a monstrous lie,
I tender 't here; I do as truly suffer
Rudesby, be gone!
A thousand of his people butchered;
sparks and lustrous, a word, good metals: you shall
Fie, thou'rt a churl; ye've got a humour there
With this dead-killing news!
Yea, brought her hither,
An easy task it is to win our own.
But I do love the favour and the form
Here they rob them and bind them. Exeunt
Exeunt
A king of shreds and patches,--
ecstasy hath so much overborne her that my daughter
That so sweetly were forsworn;
Exterior form, outward accoutrement,
have lost, the disgrace we have digested; which in
When subtle Greeks surprised King Priam's Troy,
as his finger. And thou wert best look to't; for if
By the heels, and suddenly; and on your heads
Brach Merriman, the poor cur is emboss'd;
get an eye-wink of her: I had myself twenty angels
Not worth the time of day. It pierced me through;
[Aside to ISABELLA]  Go to; 'tis well; away!
Thou cutt'st my head off with a golden axe,
Confounds us. Hark! I laid their daggers ready;
Exit
If you will live, lament; if die, be brief,
The treason and you go in peace away together.
And we are barren and bereft of friends;
I will not.
And kiss'd her lips with such a clamorous smack
My lord, he doth deny to come.
Re-enter CASSIO, driving in RODERIGO
To show how costly summer was at hand,
Exeunt
That he that breaks a stick of Gloucester's grove
Either consent to pay this sum for me
What, angry, Sir Thurio! do you change colour?
Did seek to murder me: and having woo'd
Tell me, my friend, art thou the man that slew him?
Whilst I, by looking on the praise of him,
That have my heart parted betwixt two friends
With your sedged crowns and ever-harmless looks,
Lady, you come hither to be married to this count.
And added to the gall. O Lear, Lear, Lear!
How likes Gremio these quick-witted folks?
Your betters, sir.
You know not
A most high miracle!
There's more in't than fair visage. Bullen!
Where shame doth harbour, even in Mowbray's face.
Are letters brought, the tenor these:
Come, therefore, and to Thasos send his body:
I return; nay, I bear it on my shoulders, as a
He is ready at the door: he comes, my lord.
Is this the Lord Talbot, uncle Gloucester,
Almost I had.
Your provost knows the place where he abides
Upon the corner of the moon
shoe trod upon God's ground and his earth, in my
Lest child, child's children, cry against you woe!
Exeunt Pyramus and Thisbe
Here's Gloucester, a foe to citizens,
'Item: She hath more hair than wit,'--
Enter HORATIO
Leave unsaluted: sink, my knee, i' the earth;
it among the whitsters in Datchet-mead, and there
deceiving promises of life; which I by my good
What else?
And look where Publius is come to fetch me.
What ever have been thought on in this state,
Salutation and greeting to you all!
March
Thou art, great lord, my father's sister's son,
Why, bishop, is Norfolk dead?
Four feasts are toward.
Till holy church incorporate two in one.
And that's a wonder: fathers commonly
dogs bark so? be there bears i' the town?
In England work your grace's full content.
Christian. Come, my spade. There is no ancient
desire your more acquaintance, good Master
For blessed are the peacemakers on earth.
Yet have I left a daughter.
Change you colour?
The addition nobly ever!
Do as I bid thee: there's no more to say,
Is not a dukedom, sir, a goodly gift?
Clarence, whom I, indeed, have laid in darkness,
A puffed man?
Thou dost conspire against thy friend, Iago,
In your protectorship you did devise
Here, under leave of Brutus and the rest--
That married with Othello.
There is Douglas and Lord Mortimer.
words. What doth he think of us?
Do you not remember, a' saw a flea stick upon
I pray you, now receive them.
Hath he deserved to lose his birthright thus?
I wonder that thou, being, as thou sayest thou art,
Than my out-wall, open this purse, and take
Than stay, past doubt, for greater:
Confederates all thus to dishonour me.
John hath seized Arthur; and it cannot be
The mightiest of thy greatest enemies,
To be the father unto many sons.
By all Diana's waiting-women yond,
For in my youth I never did apply
But thou art not quickly moved to strike.
protector.
for the which you are to do me both a present and a
A priest there offering to it his own heart.
When I had at my pleasure taunted her
How and which way I may bestow myself
Would blow you through and through.
Caesar made here; but made not here his brag
mine: wilt thou serve me?
fashion is? how giddily a' turns about all the hot
speak. Sweet, say on.
Exeunt PRINCE HENRY and POINS
Your ancient, trusty, pleasant servant Grumio.
'Tis the last service that I shall command you.
Would I were in an alehouse in London! I would give
duke is strong.' What say you to that?
On that advantage, bought with such a shame,
Tell him, it is for justice and for aid,
And hath as oft a slanderous epitaph
Listen, fair madam: let it be your glory
It lends a lustre and more great opinion,
At your own house; there he unarms him.
Is but a quintain, a mere lifeless block.
Which never ceaseth to enlarge itself
Alas, my lord,
Exit
'Thou dost lie in't, to be in't and say it is thine:
Wipe off the dust that hides our sceptre's gilt
Farewell: yet, soft! Hector! take my leave:
I warrant thee, my man's as true as steel.
face, a reverend carriage, a slow tongue, in the
The height, the crest, or crest unto the crest,
which none must know but the king; and which he
Ventidius lately
What I must strive to do.
Whom heavens, in justice, both on her and hers,
Have with my knife carved in Roman letters,
drowned: go, look after him.
Are as the time is: to be tender-minded
danced before the king; and not the worst of the
What though he love your Hermia? Lord, what though?
For such an injury would vex a very saint,
But why, why, why?
Have we no wine here?
Why, noble lords,
To scourge you for this apprehension:
And we their hands.
wards and dungeons, Denmark being one o' the worst.
Go, Cleomenes;
No joyful tongue gave him his welcome home:
Investing lank-lean; cheeks and war-worn coats
Yes.
Titus Andronicus, my lord the emperor
Madam!
Clambering the walls to eye him: stalls, bulks, windows,
All covered dishes!
And some that smile have in their hearts, I fear,
And ne'er throughout the year to church thou go'st
The ministers for the purpose hurried thence
For so I have strew'd it in the common ear,
And that would woo her. Upon this hint I spake:
They thus directed, we will follow
Philomel, with melody,  and c.
My grained ash an hundred times hath broke
Flattering myself, as if it were the Moor
To let him there a month behind the gest
For flattery is the bellows blows up sin;
Why, Phaeton,--for thou art Merops' son,--
Enter PANDARUS and Troilus's Boy, meeting
As are companions noted and most known
Well, what then? what then?
That all those eyes adored them ere their fall
So do not you, for you are a light wench.
We have landed in ill time: the skies look grimly
'tis a withered pear; it was formerly better;
It is no other: show your wisdom, daughter,
wherefore: so that, if they love they know not why,
Rousillon, a foolish idle boy, but for all that very
Look to thy bark: I'll not be long before
Why, we will set forth before or after them, and
Almost too small for sight: the murmuring surge,
The morn that I was wedded to her mother.
Of blue Olympus.
When he was brought again to the bar, to hear
Weigh oath with oath, and you will nothing weigh:
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, AGRIPPA, and MECAENAS
To have saved their carcasses! took heel to do't,
Lusty and like to live: the queen receives
Away with her! Poor soul,
Even with the fierce looks of these bloody men.
Very obedient. Proceed you in your tears.
Enter PAROLLES
More womanly than he; hardly gave audience, or
Strange things in hand, Master Brook! Follow.
Did it to help thee to a better husband.
Exeunt FORTINBRAS and Soldiers
To the April day again. Come, damned earth,
But in oblivion and hateful griefs.
You have the honey still, but these the gall;
Unto the rainbow, or with taper-light
My gracious uncle, let me know my fault:
To call them woollen vassals, things created
That which his noble ancestors achieved with blows:
I am in health, I breathe, and see thee ill.
It is to see a nobleman want manners.
Why should their liberty than ours be more?
No, that same wicked bastard of Venus that was begot
Sweet health and fair desires consort your grace!
devil knew not what he did when he made man
I had rather be in this choice than throw ames-ace
With him my son, Lord John of Lancaster;
Are here arrived give order that these bodies
ANTIPHOLUS
Are sometimes like our judgments, blind. Good faith,
When Clifford cannot spare his friends an oath.
How they are stain'd, as meadows, yet not dry,
And came to the eye o' the king: wherein was read,
First, in this forest, let us do those ends
With mine own tears I wash away my balm,
Music, and a song
That you affect; and so must you resolve,
Away!
Sir, lend me your arm.
Upon his son; who, high in name and power,
O shut the door! and when thou hast done so,
An heretic, an arch one, Cranmer; one
Nay, come your ways.
Which, as I take it, is a kind of puppy
all myself,--
Surprised him suddenly, and brought him hither,
Thus Kent, O princes, bids you all adieu;
For private faults in them.
And, to deal plainly,
Adder's fork and blind-worm's sting,
He; I know him.
Now, by this light, were I to get again,
Most provident in peril, bind himself,
more, as pretty a piece of flesh as any is in
They swell, and grow as terrible as storms.
Whom he redeem'd from prison: all these
if matters should be looked into, for their own
Must be companion of his nuptial bed:
I shall beat you to your tent, and prove a shrewd
My noble lords; for those that tame wild horses
The practise and the purpose of the king:
her very description.
Linger your patience on; and we'll digest
Soliciting his wife: ay, that's the way
So soon forsaken? young men's love then lies
The merchandise which thou hast brought from Rome
March. Enter QUEEN MARGARET, PRINCE EDWARD, SOMERSET, OXFORD, and soldiers
The council shall know this.
Come Caesar to the Capitol to-morrow?
But miserable most, to love unloved?
To me or my swift passage, that I slide
Turn terror into sport: as weeds before
O, good sir, softly, good sir! I fear, sir, my
Small things make base men proud: this villain here,
And give me swift transportance to those fields
Let's shut our gates and sleep: manhood and honour
Sovereign to all the creatures on the earth.
A bloody tyrant and a homicide;
Does change my disposition.
Concerning the French journey: I replied,
He has made too much plenty with 'em;
Is the main motive of our preparations,
And woes by wrong imaginations lose
Vexations of it! Had I been thief-stol'n,
She says she drinks no other drink but tears,
Dry up your tears, and stick your rosemary
Shouldst thou but hear I were licentious
His fortunes all lie speechless and his name
And so farewell until I meet thee next.
Ay, thou wast born to be a plague to men.
Enter FALSTAFF
The heavens have thought well on thee Lafeu,
'Tis true.
Safe, Antony; Brutus is safe enough:
I'll in to counsel them; haply my presence
Exit BRUTUS
Against my kindred, brothers, and myself,
Upon the like devotion as yourselves,
There's something tells me, but it is not love,
No, monster, not I.
Keeps wassail, and the swaggering up-spring reels;
Madam, I come to whet your gentle thoughts
Richard hath best deserved of all my sons.
Believe me, cousin Gloucester,
Wherein my sword had not impressure made
Then must your brother die.
O cousin, thou art come to set mine eye:
Exeunt
Liar and slave!
and, which is more, a householder, and, which is
Now is the day we long have looked for:
LEONATUS POSTHUMUS.'
loved, no sooner loved but they sighed, no sooner
So, weeping, smiling, greet I thee, my earth,
I'll pay that doctrine, or else die in debt.
Is this the alliance that he seeks with France?
need none, so long as I live.
shall pride carry it?
I shall review Sicilia, for whose sight
The fresh-brook muscles, wither'd roots and husks
Is most divinely vow'd upon the right
the way? Is it sad, and few words? or how? The
Even now, we heard a hollow burst of bellowing
Not shine to-day! Why, what is that to me
Exit
Hew down and fell the hardest-timber'd oak.
Nor doth this wood lack worlds of company,
My noble uncle, do you know the cause?
I make not, but foresee.
Is't possible?
The knowledge of themselves.
Is touch'd corruptibly, and his pure brain,
have spoke the least:
Come, let us go: we will include all jars
Between the child and parent.
Hath my sword therefore broke through London gates,
Speak, Pyramus. Thisby, stand forth.
Patience, thou young and rose-lipp'd cherubin,--
Lies on my tongue: no, Percy, thou art dust
Ay, my good lord, he's dead.
I will owe thee an answer for that: and now forward
thing to you, wherein I must very much lay open mine
A modern ecstasy; the dead man's knell
We do no otherwise than we are will'd.
banish Bardolph, banish Poins: but for sweet Jack
Saw I him touch'd with anger so distemper'd.
To royalty unlearn'd, honour untaught,
What, will these hands ne'er be clean?--No more o'
lose my doctor? no; he gives me the potions and the
But that the dread of something after death,
As oft as any passion under heaven
Gentle Lavinia, let me kiss thy lips.
What's thy name?
Enter CONSTANCE
hundred ducats a-piece for his picture in little.
To hear me speak the message I am sent on.
Now, good master doctor!
Hath caused his death: the which if wrongfully,
Might well have made our sport a comedy.
I cannot love her, nor will strive to do't.
Hie you to Egypt again.
But misery: I know 'tis from Cordelia,
Set honour in one eye and death i' the other,
Exeunt
We'll chide this Dauphin at his father's door.
But sanctuary children ne'er till now.
What's he?
A thousand times good night!
peremptorily I speak it, there is virtue in that
My mortified spirit. Now bid me run,
Good, yet remember whom thou hast aboard.
And also, I think, thou art not ignorant
May it please your honour, my lord hath sent--
A sword, whose temper I intend to stain
If murdering innocents be executing,
Henry Lord Scroop of Masham.
That's a shealed peascod.
And out of heart, master: all those three I will prove.
If he be slain, say 'I'; or if not, no:
Which to requite, command me while I live.
And, for an entrance to my entertainment,
Why, he that wears her like a medal, hanging
Out, fool!
and some have greatness thrown upon them.' I was
Which cannot perish having thee aboard,
Neither entitled in the other's heart.
Ay, sir; to be honest, as this world goes, is to be
I'll blush you thanks.
That did the latest service to my master.
The precedent was full as long a-doing:
To us in our election this day,
And let me the canakin clink, clink;
To make a bondmaid and a slave of me;
And this ditty, after me,
I spy a great peard under his muffler.
king, nor the queen: and therefore, Peter, have at
Thou dost miscall retire:
It would make any man cold to lose.
Re-enter DOLABELLA
That next by him beneath; so every step,
What, will my daughter prove a good musician?
It warms the very sickness in my heart,
Hence with him to the Tower; let him not speak.
No, if I digg'd up thy forefathers' graves
I throw my hands, mine eyes, my heart to thee,
Of all the court and princes of my blood:
the dirt: thou hadst little wit in thy bald crown,
Ready to catch each other by the throat,
Our strong arms be our conscience, swords our law.
Fit to instruct her youth. If you, Hortensio,
Thou'st made me cuckold.
Go bid thy master well advise himself:
And that will well confirm it.
Of greatest justice. Write, write, Rinaldo,
Good aunt, stand up.
Of my whole course of love; what drugs, what charms,
But that I told him, the revenging gods
March within
Blush, Blush, thou lump of foul deformity;
So that, betwixt their tides and low names,
By which the property of youth and maidhood
To win this easy match play'd for a crown?
What should I think on't?
no, not for dwelling where you do: if I do, Pompey,
I weep myself to think upon thy words.
Come, will you go with me?
But that the good mind of Camillo tardied
sent to the deputy.
Hath power to keep you king in spite of all.
And he whose wife is most obedient
Why, that's all one.
Of egal justice, used in such contempt?
Which cannot in their huge and proper life
Have I not reason, think you, to look pale?
With those of Norway, or did line the rebel
So hath thy breath, my dearest Thisby dear.
Indeed, you shall not.
How chances it they travel? their residence, both
Goodness and he fill up one monument!
That he may never more false title plead,
Ay, and this.
I prize it not a straw, but for mine honour,
And use it for my haste. Come, come, away!
O weary night, O long and tedious night,
[Aside to her sons]  What say you, boys? will you
See that forthwith Duke Edward be convey'd
By this at Daintry, with a puissant troop.
But when I swear, it is irrevocable.
Himself in person there?
And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
Thus high, by thy advice
The gracious queen, part of his theme, but nothing
purse. If thou wilt needs damn thyself, do it a
But, as you know me all, a plain blunt man,
Come hither, count; do you know these women?
He ne'er lift up his hand but conquered.
That makes amends for her sour breath.
Help me this once, that France may get the field.
know himself.
Yet in some measure satisfy her so
done, for thou hast more of the wild-goose in one of
The one I'll slay, the other slayeth me.
During the life of this old majesty,
Attend upon Cominius to these wars.
love; wherein, by the colour of his beard, the shape
Fordo its own life: 'twas of some estate.
The generous and gravest citizens
Believe not thy disdain, but presently
I thank thee, Moon, for shining now so bright;
Let it come down.
And for the love he beareth to your daughter
Received his love?
Do you hear, forester?
What, madam! be dishonour'd openly,
I pray thee, good Camillo, be no more importunate:
worship's presence, ha' ta'en a couple of as arrant
Wilt thou spit all thyself? The seaman's whistle
Cleanse the foul body of the infected world,
God save the foundation!
offenceless dog to affright an imperious lion: sue
Then I am paid;
And never be Bassanio so for me:
I would know that.
A witch, by fear, not force, like Hannibal,
Heir to the crown; meaning indeed his house,
Lo, there thou stand'st, a breathing valiant man,
Prick love for pricking, and you beat love down.
There vanish'd in the sunbeams: which portends--
SCENE II. Imogen's bedchamber in Cymbeline's palace:
I am glad you're well.
Sir Proteus, what says Silvia to my suit?
Welcome, brave Warwick! What brings thee to France?
at me; for it was so dark, Hal, that thou couldst
Lord Rivers and Lord Grey are sent to Pomfret,
This is the rarest dream that e'er dull sleep
It is like a barber's chair that fits all buttocks,
Marry, but you shall have; and here's my hand.
You should have said, sir, before a knave thou'rt a
Some reasons of this double coronation
kill King Pericles; and if I do it not, I am sure to
He's within, sir, but not to be spoken withal.
And she to him, to stay him not too long,
What sayest thou?
That
Except this city now by us besieged,
I never more will break an oath with thee.
And our indentures tripartite are drawn;
We shall thrive now. Seest thou, my good fellow?
gentlemen.
That for this twelvemonth she'll not undertake
and so I thank you for your good counsel. Come, my
Ah, but I think him better than I say,
I have a woman's longing.
If partially affined, or leagued in office,
[Within]  I do beseech you
Lie in a pitch'd field.
Thus stands the case: you know our king, my brother,
Should hold up high in brass, and such again
Will seem as pure as snow, and the poor state
And tell them, there thy fixed foot shall grow
Toward thee forgetfulness too general, gross:
[Reads]  'This policy and reverence of age makes
That Cassio's not alive.
Yet tell'st thou not how thou wert entertain'd.
purpose! Fortune, put them into my hand! This is
though I am not bookish, yet I can read
I do obey thee till I give thee bail.
Should run thy head from thy unreverent shoulders.
All the occurrences, whatever chanced,
husband'? None, I think, and it be the right husband
And takes her farewell of the glorious sun!
And I'll spring up in his tears, an 'twere a nettle
I would exult, man: you know, he brought me out o'
with you. Your father and my uncle hath made
Kneel to the duke before he pass the abbey.
To satisfy your highness and the entreaties
Enter DUKE OF YORK
Compare her face with some that I shall show,
Heaven cease this idle humour in your honour!
bald-pated, lying rascal, you must be hooded, must
Thou say'st his sports were hinderd by thy brawls:
So we could find some pattern of our shame.
Hark! I hear their drum.
me see, let me see, let me see.
down an ass! But, masters, remember that I am an
Juliet, the county stays.
By falsehood and corruption doth it shame.
Hark, villains! I will grind your bones to dust
The enemies of Caesar shall say this;
We will establish our estate upon
Giving more light than heat, extinct in both,
I mean, my head upon your lap?
My face is but a moon, and clouded too.
He came to me and I deliver'd it.
take the word of a king and a bachelor. How answer
Nay, it is my maid's aunt of Brentford.
The only soil of his fair virtue's gloss,
Who, being suffer'd with the bear's fell paw,
Too true; and bought his climbing very dear.
This lord go to him! Jupiter forbid,
My kind Antonio,
Like a full soldier. Let's to the seaside, ho!
You have enscheduled briefly in your hands.
Enter the Travellers
Is't even so?
Than what you hear of: come more, for more
No, girl, I'll knit it up in silken strings
O heavy deed!
Meantime, this deep disgrace in brotherhood
In the main battle, whose puissance on either side
By the bare scalp of Robin Hood's fat friar,
Alas for both, both mine, Edward and Clarence!
Farewell; commend me to thy mistress.
Exit
I know, Iago,
As smiles upon the forehead of this action
A hundred times and oftener, in my sleep,
Sit fas aut nefas, till I find the stream
What, John Rugby! I pray thee, go to the casement,
Cut off by course of justice,--
Enter PARIS, TROILUS, AENEAS, DEIPHOBUS, ANTENOR, and DIOMEDES
Welcome to Rome, renowned Coriolanus!
Or else misgraffed in respect of years,--
I mean the whispered ones, for they are yet but
Nobler than that it covers: let thy effects
Than those I shed for him. What was he like?
To oppose your cunning. You're meek and
Moved with compassion of my country's wreck,
play the workman. I dare speak it to myself--for it
Enter CYMBELINE and QUEEN
Good: I will expect you.
I would to God, my lords, he might be found:
You'll win two days upon me.
name for an ass.
Or my shamed life in his dishonour lies:
Nor never did my actions yet commence
it comes to pass oft that a terrible oath, with a
Quick, come!
And soundly too: your houses!
A confidence sans bound. He being thus lorded,
Heaven bless thee!
Hark! they are coming from the field: shall we
Makes fear'd and talk'd of more than seen--your son
Of a strange nature is the suit you follow;
O sun,
Have thy desire.
That was his mistress.
shall 'scape whipping.
His knell rung out, his judgment, he was stirr'd
And will awake him from his melancholy.
Enter PANDARUS and CRESSIDA
And my estate deserves an heir more raised
Than, living dully sluggardized at home,
And wonder what they were and to what end
Thou art sure of me:--go, make money:--I have told
a most festinate preparation: we are bound to the
Say their great enemy is gone, and they
Yet, to supply the ripe wants of my friend,
And fright our native peace with self-born arms.
His body for a girl that loves him not:
Alas, what does this gentleman conceive?
my reputation! I have lost the immortal part of
but the devil, and we shall know him by his horns.
And hear him mock the Frenchman. But, heavens know,
Do you hear, Cassio?
An alarum. Enter TALBOT in an excursion
The cannons to the heavens, the heavens to earth,
hear of it hereafter. But shall we have this
The clothiers all, not able to maintain
Exit
Lo, yonder, and Titinius mourning it.
How likes she my discourse?
But nothing alter'd: what I was, I am;
He saves my labour by his own approach.
ACT III
Although my will distaste what it elected,
I'll to the friar, to know his remedy:
Well, I will go.
and weighty.
Noble Timon,
Betwixt my love and your high majesty.
The King of Naples and Jerusalem;
From thee to die were torture more than death:
Betwixt the stout Lord Talbot and the French.
That would not be a queen, that would she not,
move
cry you mercy: I thought your honour had already been
And fight and die is death destroying death;
From this world's thraldom to the joys of heaven.
A bridegroom in my death, and run into't
o' the way?
It faded on the crowing of the cock.
What thou wilt,
Here is her hand, the agent of her heart;
That he believes himself: so do not I.
She did show favour to the youth in your sight only
Fetch forth the lazar kite of Cressid's kind,
Iago,--
Yet surely Cassio, I believe, received
To change a master. O, my fortunes have
Then doth it well appear that Salique law
one;
I am hush'd until our city be a-fire,
Exit
are full of deceits?
Dismiss his power, he means to visit us,
Brought my too diligent ear: for several virtues
a' bade me lay more clothes on his feet: I put my
Romeo, that she were, O, that she were
Are now to have no successive degrees,
and Caesar's thrasonical brag of 'I came, saw, and
And, even in thy behalf, I'll thank myself
merry? shall we have a play extempore?
Have ever made me sour my patient cheek,
With better appetite.
With what addition?
And here it rests, that you'll procure the vicar
Our care and pity is so much upon you,
This was so and no slumber. Dreams are toys:
I thank thee: lead me on.
and says little; to fear judgment; to fight when I
Even to the point of envy, if 'twere made
ANTIPHOLUS
No, I will be the pattern of all patience;
Let us with care perform his great behest.
Let it be so; and let Andronicus
The offices of nature, bond of childhood,
I did not think, sir, to have met you here.
SCENE I. A lane by the wall of Capulet's orchard.
And thither will I bring thee, Valentine.
That never knew what truth meant: I now seal it;
I'll trust, by leisure, him that mocks me once;
Brother, good day; what means this armed guard
Come hither.
Signior Petruchio, will you go with us,
And we will make thee famous through the world.
I promised here to meet.
And affecting one sole throne,
Yes, to smell pork; to eat of the habitation which
Exit
The palace full of tongues, of eyes, and ears:
By this unheedful, desperate, wild adventure:
hadst been still with me, I could have taught my
And tell my lord and lady what hath happ'd.
With those that have but little: this must be patch'd
Ha! ha! Alas, poor wretch! ah, poor capocchia!
Behind the tuft of pines I met them; never
Sweet Pandarus,--
False justicer, why hast thou let her 'scape?
Here comes little Robin.
Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear: for, lo! his sword,
Murder her brothers, and then marry her!
Then, in our measure do but vouchsafe one change.
Or else refusing me, to wed this shepherd:
But I in danger for the breach of law.
dry basting.
Officed with me: we two will walk, my lord,
I never heard any soldier dislike it.
And prodigally gave them all to you.
Cool it with a baboon's blood,
Why should not I then prosecute my right?
Hortensio, peace! thou know'st not gold's effect:
And in the morning early will we both
I fear, I fear 'twill prove a troublous world.
Who in this kind of merry fooling am nothing
And coops from other lands her islanders,
Than such an one to reign.
I never spent an hour's talk withal:
Landlord of England art thou now, not king:
Enter COMINIUS
Baptista is a noble gentleman,
Exit DIOMEDES; ULYSSES and TROILUS following
Exit Bardolph
Her hair is auburn, mine is perfect yellow:
His sons, he says, shall give their words for him.
Besides, virginity is peevish, proud, idle, made of
This will I do, and this I will advise you:
Whilst any trump did sound, or drum struck up,
I must aboard to-morrow.
That I do hate thee and love Helena.
The gods confound--hear me, you good gods all--
Before me! look, where she comes.
I will make haste: but, till I come again,
And so she died: had she been light, like you,
To feel only looking on fairest of fair:
To three thousand dolours a year.
I do beseech you, as in way of taste,
Those he commands move only in command,
Exit SERVILIUS
Still we went coupled and inseparable.
My scutcheon plain declares that I am Alisander,--
This gilded serpent
That leads him to these places: were I his lady,
And he, long traded in it, makes it seem
it: if I do it, let the audience look to their
I might ask you for your commission; but I do take
call me knave. Begin, fool: it begins 'Hold thy peace.'
DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO.'
We'll execute your purpose, and put on
Had we no quarrel else to Rome, but that
Base slave, thy words are blunt and so art thou.
Enter GLOUCESTER
Give ear to his motions, Master Slender: I will
Give him all kindness: I had rather have
And ask remission for my folly past.
O, they are at it!
No sneaping winds at home, to make us say
They shoot but calm words folded up in smoke,
My life, my joy, my food, my all the world!
From whence, fragment?
And you of her, the bloody book of law
'Tis told me, he hath very oft of late
When this same lusty gentleman was got.
'Save you, good Sir Hugh!
discourse, my lord.
wink and hold out mine iron: it is a simple one; but
may sigh it off. Send after the duke and appeal to
What is thy soul of adoration?
the chain; but, I warrant you, the women have so
As I am son and servant to your will,
Canst thou blame him?
Here is my hand for my true constancy;
Than when I feel and see her no farther trust her;
Hath not deserved my service nor your loves;
Enrobe the roaring waters with my silks,
ass.
To the end of reckoning.
ANTIPHOLUS
wrong to put you so oft upon 't: are there not men
All wanton as a child, skipping and vain,
If you advise it.
Come to one mark; as many ways meet in one town;
What he hath lost noble Macbeth hath won.
Enter a Doctor
Treason! foul treason! Villain! traitor! slave!
But what likelihood is in that?
To be call'd whore? would it not make one weep?
you: he beat me grievously, in the shape of a
Had I not reason, think ye, to make haste,
Come, let us go; and pray to all the gods
She better would have fitted me or Clarence:
Let's see how it will give off.
Seized on the realm, deposed the rightful king,
I do it not in evil disposition,
Go to, go to; peace, peace; we must deal gently
Why, headstrong liberty is lash'd with woe.
And I am proof against their enmity.
If you did know for whom I gave the ring
But how, is to be question'd; for I saw her,
Yes, my lord, yes; he at Philippi kept
not been there--bless the mark!--a pissing while, but
[Reads]  'If any man of quality or degree within
Re-enter Servingman
For the enfreed Antenor, the fair Cressid:
And this shall all be buried by my death,
that cannot I help. Well, proceed.
And here I prophesy: this brawl to-day,
Here's Beaufort, that regards nor God nor king,
If he were that which now he's like, that's dead;
A full-hot horse, who being allow'd his way,
Some honest Christian trust me with a gage
Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
Or else his head's assurance is but frail.
So much they love it; but to stubborn spirits
Stabs herself
Fled from his father, from his hopes, and with
Show a fair presence and put off these frowns,
I hope I have your good will, father Page.
To read a lecture of them? If thou wouldst,
I have inly wept,
vaillant, et tres distingue seigneur d'Angleterre.
Dispark'd my parks and fell'd my forest woods,
my father lived, give twenty, forty, fifty, an
That blood which owed the breadth of all this isle,
Lucius preconsul: and to you the tribunes,
The light and careless livery that it wears
Cheerly to sea; the signs of war advance:
A cry of hounds and horns, winded in a peal. Enter  SATURNINUS, TAMORA, BASSIANUS, LAVINIA, DEMETRIUS, CHIRON, and Attendants
You must not speak of that: you must desire them
point-devise companions; such rackers of
Les dames et demoiselles pour etre baisees devant
I am so far from granting thy request
He will be talking.
I do profess to be no less than I seem; to serve
ANTIPHOLUS
O, help me, help me! pluck but off these rags; and
Against your honour
The gift doth stretch itself as 'tis received,
Indeed his king, to be engaged in Wales,
The roof o' the chamber
pitiful goers-between be called to the world's end
So many miles with a pretence? this place?
For once the eagle England being in prey,
Troilus methinks mounted the Troyan walls
O thou damned cur! I shall--
His silence will sit drooping.
It irks his heart he cannot be revenged.
Peace! no more.
I heard the owl scream and the crickets cry.
Cease, cease these jars and rest your minds in peace:
A better witness back than words, which we,
He first presents his fire; and the high east
But wherefore art not in thy shop today?
My truth-betrothed love and now my wife?
Freshly on me: 'tis surely for a name.
Madam, do you; 'tis fittest.
O, upon my knee,
The same dead thing alive.
And had I twenty times so many foes,
Post thou to Salisbury
[Aside]  Though I am not naturally honest, I am so
genders? Thou art as foolish Christian creatures as
Thou didst prevent me; I had peopled else
Who builds his hopes in air of your good looks,
A pox on him, he's a cat still.
Then, in a moment, Fortune shall cull forth
Exeunt
Who has a charter to extol her blood,
None but the fool; who labours to out-jest
Irons of a doit, doublets that hangmen would
Peace, thou! and give King Henry leave to speak.
Worthy his goodness. What might I have been,
Made proud by princes, that advance their pride
Of unimproved mettle hot and full,
I play the noble housewife with the time
intelligence in his power against you, and that with
O, falsely, falsely murder'd!
With favour never clasp'd; but bred a dog.
Was a sweet creature: such a ring as this,
As chimney-sweepers, come to dust.
Allow'd with absolute power and thy good name
And the wind brings it from the Capitol.
as much safety you might answer him: therefore, on,
If these shows be not outward, which of you
Farewell.
Shall for itself itself perform.
Falls into the pit
'Twas I; but 'tis not I	I do not shame
Throwing down a glove
Thou draw not on thy danger and dishonour;
And, to be noted for a merry man,
To wound thy lord, thy king, thy governor:
Sir, grieve not you; you are welcome notwithstanding.
And on our actions set the name of right
To men of middle age. You're very welcome.
That wounds me with the flatteries of his tongue.
And Trinculo is reeling ripe: where should they
And got a calf in that same noble feat
A thousand talents to me.
Exit
DON
Is for a precious creature: as she's rare,
pot; shall have ten hoops and I will make it felony
Exit, guarded
When I was got, I'll send his soul to hell.
The mightiest space in fortune nature brings
What, did they never whisper?
Would that do it good?
Why should hard-favour'd grief be lodged in thee,
And sack great Rome with Romans.
action? do I not bate? do I not dwindle? Why my
Where were you born, friend?
For the rain it raineth every day.
Videsne quis venit?
What answer makes King Lewis unto our letters?
'Tis better said than done, my gracious lord:
Not to-night, good Iago: I have very poor and
should buy the fee-simple of my life for an hour and a quarter.
This was lofty! Now name the rest of the players.
And hides a sword from hilts unto the point
I leave out ceremony.
Methinks he seems no bigger than his head:
Enter JESSICA and LAUNCELOT
I am marble-constant; now the fleeting moon
Then she hath sworn that she will still live chaste?
Frederick the great soldier who miscarried at sea?
A goodly portly man, i' faith, and a corpulent; of a
Ay, but he'll have but a year in all these ducats:
An oath of mickle might; and fury shall abate.
I hate it, and desire all good men's love.
Pioners and all, had tasted her sweet body,
will keep no fool, sir, till she be married; and
Lorenzo, I commit into your hands
In profiting by them. Nay, call us ten times frail;
My gracious lord, my lovely Saturnine,
Consisteth of all nations. Therefore, go:
Then follow thou thy desperate sire of Crete,
Most sweet lady,--
That I may turn me to each one of you,
That wilt not stay her tongue.
For policy sits above conscience.
piety, as shall be proved upon thee by good witness.
Ratcliff, about the mid of night come to my tent
So speedily can venge! But, O poor Gloucester!
Help me away, dear Charmian; I shall fall:
He hath commission from thy wife and me
Did he receive you well?
I am very glad to see you. Good even, sir.
impaired, but all disordered. Who is next?
Let Neptune hear we bid a loud farewell
Who slew to-day a righteous gentleman
Or thy affection cannot hold the bent;
O, that delightful engine of her thoughts
thought fit, through all Athens, to play in our
To be exalted with the threatening clouds:
The rage be his, whilst on the earth I rain
thing, that of the skin of an innocent lamb should
The effect of what I wrote?
Unless thou think'st me devilish--is't not meet
That is, were I under the terms of death,
will deliver his wife into your hand. Follow.
Good night.
Which nature loathes--take thou the destined tenth,
Why, then she is the devil's dam; a joyful issue.
if I were the parson. One in ten, quoth a'! An we
I could make as true a boast as that, if I had a sow
She might have been o'erta'en; and yet she writes,
'He that is giddy thinks the world turns round:'
Avaunt! and quit my sight! let the earth hide thee!
I am the youngest of that name, for fault of a worse.
I know, is such a wrest in their affairs
My sovereign mistress clouded so, without
Turn you the key, and know his business of him;
Did never sonnet for her sake compile,
Exeunt CORIOLANUS and MENENIUS
You had a motive for't.
We must awake endavour for defence;
afterwards, if they should grow themselves to common
think it fit to shore them again and that the
Off, coxcomb!
And for that name which is no part of thee
Madam, myself have limed a bush for her,
I said, an elder soldier, not a better:
here but to thrash Trojans; and thou art bought and
How does his highness?
'Gainst foreign storms than any home-bred marriage.
Issuing life-blood. But is it true, Salerio?
To do you salutation from his master.
Once more, good night, kind lords and gentlemen.
Mistake me not, my lord; 'tis not my meaning
We do not know.
She is alive; behold,
Why, yet it lives there uncheck'd that Antonio hath
But theirs is sweetened with the hope to have
Enter BASSANIO, LORENZO, and GRATIANO
Exeunt
Come, stand by me; fear nothing. Guard with halberds!
appears much joy in him; even so much that joy could
What, think You we are Turks or infidels?
That should have murdered Bassianus here.
And be not fix'd in doom perpetual,
well: thy casement I need not open, for I look
And wrangle with my reason that persuades me
To loathe the taste of sweetness, whereof a little
Blind is his love and best befits the dark.
Nay, 'tis too true; therefore he shall be king.
Here, Tamora, though grieved with killing grief.
Why, sir, what's your conceit in that?
For servants must their masters' minds fulfil.
truly, my ancient skill beguiles me; but, in the
churchmen, Master Page, we have some salt of our
Passing these flats, are taken by the tide;
Woe, woe are we, sir, you may not live to wear
the composition of a knave, beggar, coward, pandar,
Too headstrong for their mother. See, we fools!
Up, and away!
So far beneath your soft and tender breeding,
Of the true line and stock of Charles the Great,
To Edward, but not to the English king.
Come not to me again: but say to Athens,
Re-enter MARIA
Thus then, thou most renown'd: Caesar entreats,
Rise from thy stool.
sixpence a day: an the duke had not given him
Sir Hugh send-a you? Rugby, baille me some paper.
Half a share.
More fearful, is deliver'd.
Why then, the beef, and let the mustard rest.
'Tis not so, I hope.
When he looks out in an ungrateful shape!--
A woman, master.
To your professed bosoms I commit him
Posters of the sea and land,
So you will not o'errule me to a peace.
Leads ancient lords and reverend bishops on
The ills we do, their ills instruct us so.
such alligant terms; and in such wine and sugar of
Hither return all gilt with Frenchmen's blood;
For judgment only doth belong to thee.
With true observance seek to eke out that
Gods are more full of mercy. Must I repent?
and she's a great lubberly boy. If it had not been
My wife, not meanly proud of two such boys,
Or here, or at the Capitol.
Well, I may chance to see you; for I would very fain
A man of fire-new words, fashion's own knight.
Hang him, poor cuckoldly knave! I know him not:
And high top bald with dry antiquity,
Like pleasant travellers, to break a jest
Turn out that eyeless villain; throw this slave
Enter BIANCA
He, that dares most, but wag his finger at thee:
To pluck on others.
bull! now, dog! 'Loo, Paris, 'loo! now my double-
Though I do hate him as I do hell-pains.
Saving your mincing, the capacity
Trust me, a good knot: I have good cheer at home;
Two or three groan: it is a heavy night:
And what we do establish he confirms:
Exit
Or strange, or self-affected!
I will employ thee back again; I find thee
With her to thee; and this addition more,
To VIOLA
I will never mistrust my wife again till thou art
Rouse him: make after him, poison his delight,
Who, earnest in the service of my God,
Ay, forsooth; and, I pray, how does good Mistress Anne?
That fell away have entertainment, but
O worthiest cousin!
Peace, fool: he's not thy kinsman.
An old, an old instance, Beatrice, that lived in
As you like this, give me the lie another time.
And be thou he.
And, if you love me, as I think you do,
Did, as a prophet, weep what it foresaw
No, in despite of sense and secrecy,
Retire, we have engaged ourselves too far:
make one. Though we are justices and doctors and
Yes, but it held not:
Thou diedst, a most rare boy, of melancholy.
Have I been patron to Antipholus,
Your eyes, half out, weep out at Pandar's fall;
Enter VALENTINE and PROTEUS
Magic of bounty! all these spirits thy power
I know this is a joyful trouble to you;
To you our swords have leaden points, Mark Antony:
O'erthrows thy joys, friends, fortune and thy state:
Will't not off?
Of thee thyself and all thy complices,
daughter. Lord, we know what we are, but know not
twenty, take them all; I'll answer the coinage. Bid
Which then he wore; the snatches in his voice,
And thus I set my foot on 's neck;' even then
O let no noble eye profane a tear
But how or in what place I do not know.
Fear not my government.
all the kind of the Launces have this very fault. I
Your person most, that he would pawn his fortunes
Exit
May deem that you are worthily deposed.
there's a man, niece! Hem! Brave Troilus! the
And when thou fail'st--as God forbid the hour!--
What is the matter?
No, they are both as whole as a fish.
Entreat thee back to Athens; who have thought
With great creating nature.
A word with you.
I should, and thou couldst not. My queen and Eros
Our strong possession and our right for us.
Come hither, nurse. What is yond gentleman?
And the country proverb known,
Which bleeds away, even as a form of wax
Proffers his only daughter to your grace
I dare your quenchless fury to more rage:
Our aediles smote? ourselves resisted? Come.
How strangely?
So dear the love my people bore me, nor set
Thou liest; thou art not colted, thou art uncolted.
Not till it leave the rider in the mire.
But 'tis usurp'd: alack the heavy day,
But let me hear from you.
Think you so, sir?
Good madam, hear me speak,
Thus will I drown your exclamations.
Edward, her lord, whom I, some three months since,
A thousand fiends, a thousand hissing snakes,
How now, gentleman! how is't with you?
So noble a master fall'n! All gone! and not
Dukes of Cornwall and Albany?
Not yet, Sir Thomas Lovell. What's the matter?
Ho! Noble captain, come.
My lord, this is impiety in you:
Thou art rash as fire, to say
Or by the father there were none at all;
I'll make you amends next, to give you nothing for
Now, as you are a Roman, tell me true.
That he shall likewise shuffle her away,
COUNTESS
The first-begotten and the lawful heir,
Do not draw the curtain.
Sings
water, though I seem to drown her remembrance again with more.
much like a cheese; consumes itself to the very
I had rather thou shouldst live while nature will
This is the palace of the fearful king,
thy old father Menenius does! O my son, my son!
With a true heart
Those men are happy; and so are all are near her.
What, not a whore?
Since I have your good leave to go away,
Enter four or five Serving-men
And hardening of my brows.
And bring us Cressid hither: Calchas shall have
I left no ring with her: what means this lady?
Whom I with pain have woo'd and won thereto;
This tongue that runs so roundly in thy head
When false opinion, whose wrong thought defiles thee,
Good; and what of him?
So say we too, but not by Edward's wife;
I thank you for your pains and courtesy.
Thy brother's love, our duty, and thy fault,
Goes to and back, lackeying the varying tide,
Join with the Goths; and with revengeful war
'Tis well, Lavinia, that thou hast no hands;
Myself condemned and myself excused.
improvident jealousy? my wife hath sent to him; the
Than empty tigers or the roaring sea.
What piles of wealth hath he accumulated
While counterfeit supposes bleared thine eyne.
All there is thine.
To give each naked curtle-axe a stain,
Yet swear not, lest ye be forsworn again.
And in the duke's behalf I'll give my voice,
So for her many a wight did die,
I should have begg'd I might have been employ'd.
Caesar and he are greater friends than ever.
Bell rings
If thou beest Trinculo, come forth: I'll pull thee
thee often, and I re-tell thee again and again, I
His incivility confirms no less.
No, fair princess; he is the general challenger: I
The blackest news that ever thou heardest.
But take the High'st to witness: then, pray you, tell me,
Between the acres of the rye,
Hath turn'd his balls to gun-stones; and his soul
Nay, speak thy mind; and let him ne'er speak more
Fool!
That respites me a life, whose very comfort
For forth he goes and visits all his host.
Enter his thoughts, save such as do revolve
And so the lion vanished.
O, break! O, break!
Exit
freshly grow; then shall Posthumus end his miseries,
Whatsome'er he is,
But then are we in order when we are most
I have procured thee, Jack, a charge of foot.
At all times to your will conformable;
Enter LEONATO, ANTONIO, HERO, BEATRICE, and others
man as other men are;' and there indeed let him name
these arms till you had recovered your ancient
painted cloth, where the glutton's dogs licked his
Well, he's not here I seek for.
Going
See thou deliver it to my lord and father.
voice on you: you must therefore be content to
And yonder shines Aurora's harbinger;
Much in our vows, but little in our love.
Best to be served: whilst he stood up and spoke,
This castle hath a pleasant seat; the air
And though you call my course unnatural,
Follow me.
He sits 'mongst men like a descended god:
know this letter will make a contemplative idiot of
Aside
change for youth: when she is sated with his body,
Do come with words as medicinal as true,
fain hear some question 'tween you tway.
As I descended?
For we were subjects but while you were king.
But little thinks we shall be of her council:
To our confusion.
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY VI, CLIFFORD, NORTHUMBERLAND, WESTMORELAND, EXETER, and the rest
ship boring the moon with her main-mast, and anon
Ay, do you fear it?
way is dangerous, since I cannot yet find in my
A happy gentleman in blood and lineaments,
villain, he's bound by the indenture of his oath to
Uncle, I needs must pray that thou mayst lose;
As looks the mother on her lowly babe
'Tis strange that they should so depart from home,
We'll once more hear Orsino's embassy.
mistook in you!
Uncertain way of gain! But I am in
O, may such purple tears be alway shed
As you will live, resolve it you.
Then give you up to the mask'd Neptune and
ACT V
Go in, Bianca:
Beats him
I shall be loved when I am lack'd. Nay, mother.
That love my friend; and that they know full well
Re-enter Porter with keys
Have I train'd up: those arts they have as I
The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,
That I should wish for thee to help me curse
Speak to great Caesar as he comes along.
truepenny?
Where the impression of mine eye infixing,
Your mother was most true to wedlock, prince;
have greatness thrust upon 'em. Thy Fates open
Is common; every day some sailor's wife,
O that Glendower were come!
altitude of a chopine. Pray God, your voice, like
Exeunt LUCIO and Gentlemen
I am left out; for me nothing remains.
A fair one are you--well you fit our ages
The passages of alleys, creeks and narrow lands;
goes to them by his note: there is no hiding you in the house.
Exeunt Musicians
Deadly divorce step between me and you!
I should judge now unhappily.
Helping her
are they not monsters?
Now here he fights on Galathe his horse,
Think upon Grey, and let thy soul despair!
How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself,
'Lack, good youth!
What, am I poor of late?
must be witty now. She does so blush, and fetches
Sharp misery had worn him to the bones:
And then return lamenting to my love.
My father stays my coming; answer not;
To tender objects, but he in heat of action
From his true-meant design. Upon his place,
Blunt wedges rive hard knots: the seeded pride
Are these thy ministers? what are they call'd?
ANTIPHOLUS
In ranks and squadrons and right form of war,
This is the cause that I, poor Margaret,
As we do trust they'll end, in true delights.
To gaze upon the secrets of the deep?
What's he that knocks as he would beat down the gate?
[Aside to GUILDENSTERN]  What say you?
I cannot do it better than in gyves,
Hark, hark!
To tell thee plain, I aim to lie with thee.
Lords, take your places; and, I pray you all,
I, his despiteful Juno, sent him forth
Her peerless feature, joined with her birth,
I saw him fumble with the sheets and play with
To whom they go to. What will you read to her?
Lose those he hath won.
The evils she hatch'd were not effected; so
Antonio, gratify this gentleman,
Either his notion weakens, his discernings
In courage, courtship and proportion:
Pointing to the Attendant who carries off LEPIDUS
But this lies all within the will of God,
Is Rosaline, whom thou didst love so dear,
There is a queen, attended by a Moor;
You must needs yield your reason, Sir Andrew.
Be what they will, may stand forth face to face,
If well, he stepp'd before me, happily
Pray you, let's hear.
O, who hath any cause to mourn but I?
soul, alive or dead?
DON
sir, in a dungeon, i' the stocks, or any where, so I may live.
Petitioners for blood thou ne'er put'st back.
There make before them. Look, the good man weeps!
Know, my name is lost;
I promise you, but for your company,
The emperor, in his rage, will doom her death.
A crew of pirates came and rescued me;
He's a bear indeed, that lives like a lamb. You two
Through ranks of Greekish youth, and I have seen thee,
But he'll remember with advantages
endeavour thyself to sleep, and leave thy vain
And therein negligent; or else a fool
Are those that often have 'gainst Pompey fought:
With loyal blazon, evermore be blest!
Neighbours, God speed!
Having so swift and excellent a wit
epilogue, or to hear a Bergomask dance between two
Say, is your tardy master now at hand?
My sober house. By Jacob's staff, I swear,
is like to be executed for robbing a church, one
Nor no man else: all's cheerless, dark, and deadly.
To ROSS and ANGUS
Enter MARCIUS and TITUS LARTIUS with a trumpet
Slice, I say! pauca, pauca: slice! that's my humour.
For then, 'tis like I should forget myself:
And call them shames? which are indeed nought else
Good night, Lord Brutus.
When I was with him I have heard him swear
lady? he's fortified against any denial.
And if no gentleman, why then no arms.
To one that would have him help to waste
So you had need; for Orleans is besieged;
snowball; saying his prayers too.
such difference betwixt their two estates; Love no
But never more be officer of mine.
pluck the lined crutch from thy old limping sire,
Thy nerves are in their infancy again
Too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind,
Scratch thee but with a pin, and there remains
Doth any here know me? This is not Lear:
And prays that you will hie you home to dinner.
Thou must be my ambassador to him, Thersites.
A gentleman of Tyre,
Be it known, that we, the greatest, are misthought
and 'rests them; he, sir, that takes pity on decayed
ACT III
That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should
Madam, if your heart be so obdurate,
Is the king's hand and tongue; and who dare speak
a pitch,--pitch that defiles: defile! a foul
Her name is Portia, nothing undervalued
A husband's office? shall, Antipholus.
send for certain of my creditors: and yet, to say
Crowns what you are doing in the present deed,
Why dost not speak? what, deaf? not a word?
Loath to bid farewell, we take our leaves.
And what will you do now? How will you live?
Because we bid it. Say, is it done?
I be misconstrued in the place I go to,
Not by my consent, I promise you. The gentleman is
What mean you, sir?
Hearing alarums at our chamber-doors.
I will do't; but yet she is a goodly creature.
Noise within. Enter WARWICK, SALISBURY, and many Commons
SCENE IV. Padua. Before BAPTISTA'S house.
Puts down the skull
That's the worst tidings that I hear of yet.
Almost forgot my prayers to content him?
Dies
[Sings]
The glove which I have given him for a favour
Wilt come? I'll follow, Stephano.
I'll call upon you straight: abide within.
When 't pleased you to employ me.
Unspeak mine own detraction, here abjure
A forked mountain, or blue promontory
Where is my strength, my valour, and my force?
Can any of your neighbours tell, Kate? I'll ask
As with a man busied about decrees:
Had we done so at first, we had droven them home
Exit AEdile
Methinks I should know you, and know this man;
But in thy fortunes am unlearn'd and strange.
I did upbraid her and fall out with her;
Right, I mean you.
SCENE III. The same.
Sirs, help our uncle to convey him in.
man! Would the duke that is absent have done this?
Away, away, to meet the queen's great power!
Enter CLEOPATRA
But swords I smile at, weapons laugh to scorn,
Do not stand upon't.
O'erglanced the articles: pleaseth your grace
My honour'd lord, you know right well you did;
And I am faint and cannot fly their fury:
And pray, and sing, and tell old tales, and laugh
Then tell me, if I get your daughter's love,
I had rather hear you to solicit that
Poor worm, thou art infected!
In this the antique and well noted face
What fit is this, good lady?
I shall the effect of this good lesson keep,
And by opposing end them? To die: to sleep;
I am a gentleman, sir, and my name is Conrade.
Withdraw with us: and let the trumpets sound
Not mad, but mated; how, I do not know.
Who marvels then, when Helenus beholds
Then, if we lose this battle,
In most profound earnest; and, I'll warrant you, for
O, that I could but call these dead to life!
Have we not lost most part of all the towns,
Now die, die, die, die, die.
Our flesh and blood is grown so vile, my lord,
His uncle Siward and the good Macduff:
And shall it in more shame be further spoken,
Lament nor sorrow at; but please your thoughts
In spite of pope or dignities of church,
goodness, that the dissolution of it must cure it:
Whip to our tents, as roes run o'er land.
Where art thou, keeper? give me a cup of wine.
that, when your lordship this other day sent to me,
Shame serves thy life and doth thy death attend.
Do curse the grace that with such grace hath bless'd them,
To bring, uncle?
Ay, my lord,
shrinks from him.
example my digression by some mighty precedent.
To be the same in thine own act and valour
Uneven is the course, I like it not.
Laid to thy answer: but the last,--O lords,
Cut my lace, Charmian, come;
Where'er it be, in heaven or in earth.
Madam, I am not well.
Here were a fairy.
Groan so in perpetuity than be cured
How now, my lord! you desire to know
To-morrow all for speeding do their best.
he must be weighed rather by her value than his own,
And sounded all the depths and shoals of honour,
To make your house our Tower: you a brother of us,
Welcome, brave captain and victorious lord!
I dare avouch it, sir: what, fifty followers?
better plight for a lender than you are: the which
As well wherein 'tis precious of itself
Yet he loves himself: is't not strange?
Wherein it doth impair the seeing sense,
No din but snores the house about,
stagger in this attempt; for here we have no temple
Who will believe thee, Isabel?
arrant a villain and a Jacksauce, as ever his black
'Too young' and 'the next year' and ''tis too early.'
Say on: an if it please me which thou speak'st
Holds his soul light; he dies upon his motion.
What, art thou mad? art thou mad? is not the truth
A whining mammet, in her fortune's tender,
I must leave you.
I have no more to reckon, he to spend.
quick by him and hanged for Pompey that is dead by
There, take it; and much thanks for my good cheer.
A school-boy's top. Away with her! to prison!
disposition to the charge of a star! My
Omitted, all the voyage of their life
I'll fight till from my bones my flesh be hack'd.
O villain, that set this down among her vices! To
Was Mahomet inspired with a dove?
In that behalf which we have challenged it?
Speak truly, on thy knighthood and thy oath;
For him that brought it: wretched though I seem,
And jealous Oberon would have the child
She may, my lord, for--
O, I am slain!
I'll perfect him withal, and he shall bring you
The circumstance I'll tell you more at large.
That seem like prudent helps, are very poisonous
Your son, my lord, has paid a soldier's debt:
regal. What canst thou answer to my majesty for
times in the thought they were not fairies: and yet
affection to your honour, and to no further
Of butcher'd princes fight in thy behalf
I am your debtor, claim it when 'tis due.
Thou'rt poison to my blood.
This shadowy desert, unfrequented woods,
Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride,
Then, world, thou hast a pair of chaps, no more;
Be blind with tears, and break o'ercharged with grief.
And when was he wont to wash his face?
if you break one jot of your promise or come one
As may appear by Edward's good success,
SCENE II. Another part of the island.
advantage of the time, above him in birth, alike
unknown, without seeking find, and be embraced by a
Serve you, sir.
The farced title running 'fore the king,
Whiles we enjoy it, but being lack'd and lost,
BISHOP
Show'd like a stubble-land at harvest-home;
See, here he comes, and I must ply my theme.
Swear not by time to come; for that thou hast
Sir Robert's son: why scorn'st thou at sir Robert?
I wonder none of you have thought of him.
And by and by I will to thee appear.
And as with age his body uglier grows,
Grumio gave order how it should be done.
Come, cousin, let us tell the queen these news.
With profitable labour, to his grave:
A morsel for a monarch: and great Pompey
myself honourable! how unluckily it happened, that I
The king's a bawcock, and a heart of gold,
Exeunt CARDINAL WOLSEY and his Train
drop in his porridge.
The government I cast upon my brother
Conformable as other household Kates.
Thy noble brother Titus and his sons,
she will, say what she will, take all, pay all, go
Thus it remains, and the remainder thus. Perpend.
Tempering extremities with extreme sweet.
Our great navy's rigg'd.
In your own kingdom, sir.
What viler thing upon the earth than friends
Upon my soul--
Why, then to thee, thou silver treasure-house;
What wicked and dissembling glass of mine
What have I done, that thou darest wag thy tongue
supposed Earl of Gloucester, that he is a manifold
But that you take what doth to you belong,
Then be my passions bottomless with them.
On the sudden,
If Caesar carelessly but nod on him.
What art thou there? speak.
Set a huge mountain 'tween my heart and tongue!
Let me look back upon thee. O thou wall,
And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain,
Of all this table, say so.
My name, my good lord, is Parolles.
[Aside]  No; but he fled forward still, toward your face.
gives way to loyalty, something fears me to think
Durst never meddle--in the soul of state;
thief thinks it little enough: so every true man's
Be by my friends in Spain advised; whose counsel
Than this for whom we render'd up this woe.
hair and prove a bald jerkin.
New customs,
Love's reason's without reason: the bier at door,
We heard it all. My lord, do as you please;
And she shall scant show well that now shows best.
Is fled to heaven; and England now is left
'Run barefoot up and down, threatening the flames
Though thou didst learn, had that in't which
Your long coat, priest, protects you; thou
Even so suspicious is this tragedy.
And such a deal of skimble-skamble stuff
velvet: his left cheek is a cheek of two pile and a
Henceforward I am ever ruled by you.
I cannot leave to love, and yet I do;
Thy yellow stockings!
They have it very oft that have it not:
Whose hollow womb inherits nought but bones.
What, not between Troilus and Hector? Do you know a
Ay, and truly, you were best.
I did not give the lie. Out o' your
Wouldst thou have thy head broken?
But the strong base and building of my love
By violent swiftness, that which we run at,
As e'er I heard in madness.
Shall we disturb him, since he keeps no mean?
Follow me, and receive't.
To England will I steal, and there I'll steal:
In good sadness, I am sorry that for my sake you
Why, whose is it?
Even as a flattering dream or worthless fancy.
That fed him with his prophecies?
Let's kill him boldly, but not wrathfully;
I should do so in honour: I am in this,
Fear you his tyrannous passion more, alas,
The like of him. Know'st thou this country?
Why, so, brave lords! when we join in league,
In courtesy gives undeserving praise.
Exeunt PETRUCHIO and KATHARINA
Sings
O my good lord, when I was like this maid,
Delight in them sets off: some kinds of baseness
God save you, madam!
Now, God be praised, that to believing souls
May answer my good will and your good welcome here.
First, she confess'd she never loved you, only
How didst thou 'scape? How camest thou hither?
He has done my office: I know not if't be true;
Through Alexandria make a jolly march;
I smell it: upon my life, it will do well.
Which now to claim my vantage doth invite me.
Shall I be charged no further than this present?
To be controll'd in that he frankly gave:
Exeunt
Lords, I protest, my soul is full of woe,
Thou hast prevail'd; I pardon them and thee:
And I'll direct thee how thou shalt escape
ANTIPHOLUS
Ever at the best, hearing well of your lordship.
too little for your thief, your true man thinks it
An alligator stuff'd, and other skins
To CATESBY
You press me far, and therefore I will yield.
Thou call'dst me up at midnight to fetch dew
Which robs my tongue from breathing native breath?
What is she?
Time out o' mind the fairies' coachmakers.
To make them instruments of fear and warning
Should a like language use to all degrees
Trow'st thou that e'er I'll look upon the world,
His access to me.
Make love's quick pants in Desdemona's arms,
So fare my limbs with long imprisonment.
Patience, I pray you; 'twas a fault unwilling.
Ay, but these English are shrewdly out of beef.
themselves all men of hair, they call themselves
Leave your crisp channels and on this green land
Mastiff, grey-hound, mongrel grim,
flesh ye; come on, young master.
And bring us word unto Octavius' tent
Strike, fellows, strike; this is the man I seek.
Thy own wish wish I thee in every place!
Find them out whose names are written here! It is
Good nuncle, in, and ask thy daughters' blessing:
That with the very shaking of their chains
Sufficing strokes for death.
coming down this walk: he has been yonder i' the
refused it, the rabblement hooted and clapped their
But with a lingering dram that should not work
And by the hope I have of heavenly bliss,
Hail, most royal sir!
They summon'd up their meiny, straight took horse;
Each Trojan that is master of his heart,
Thou but rememberest me of mine own conception: I
Where most you owe obedience?
Till I do challenge it. Give him the crowns:
And from this testimony of your own sex,--
Enter KING EDWARD IV and a Huntsman with him
Enter ARIEL
And many an orphan's water-standing eye--
This praise doth nourish agues. Let them come:
It must be done this afternoon.
Frateretto calls me; and tells me
with two broken points: his horse hipped with an
That made great Jove to humble him to her hand.
A thousand times in secret.
And I will chain these legs and arms of thine,
And you degenerate, you ingrate revolts,
I would have all well betwixt you.
Are turned to one thread, one little hair:
The helms o' the state, who care for you like fathers,
understanding, diest; or, to wit I kill thee, make
Thou art going to Lord Timon's feast?
Without the rack.
And I'll be sworn upon't that he loves her;
O kiss me through the hole of this vile wall!
disasters the sun, the moon, and the stars: as
O, if thou be'st the same AEgeon, speak,
Law cannot give my child his kingdom here,
court-cupboard, look to the plate. Good thou, save
O, let my lady apprehend no fear: in all Cupid's
She's bitter to her country: hear me, Paris:
An evident calamity, though we had
Upon Sir Toby and the lighter people;
Loath to depose the child, Your brother's son;
And grumbling York: and not the least of these
But conquer'd merely.
Like balls before me; I'll unhair thy head:
Honour, health, and compassion to the senate!
Are nursed by baseness. Thou'rt by no means valiant;
I say, a husband.
And burst of speaking, were as his: I am absolute
I bade the vile owl go learn me the tenor of the
Touch me alike, they're breath I not believe in.
fit.
The king should keep his word in loving us;
'Twixt thy seditious countrymen and us,
To hasten on his expedition.
I hear him as he flatter'd.
They all read their letters
[Aside]  I know them all, though they suppose me mad,
Now I must
'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.'
And with mine eyes I'll drink the words you send,
Whilst we by Antony are all enclosed.
Olympus-high and duck again as low
Looks handsome in three hundred pounds a-year!
My liege, in Kent the Guildfords are in arms;
Who's yonder,
Seek out King John and fall before his feet;
This day's black fate on more days doth depend;
In sooth, good friend, your father might have kept
Marcius, his name?
Diomed,--
the first cock.
DON
An all men were o' my mind,--
He hath no daughters, sir.
Full of comparisons and wounding flouts,
This man is Pyramus, if you would know;
The sky doth frown and lour upon our army.
What you have done hath not offended me;
Are rid like madmen through the gates of Rome.
Come, Lucius, come; stay not to talk with them.
Lest, to thy peril, thou aby it dear.
be, give it me, for I am slow of study.
Nay, pray you, lead the way.
Cries out upon the name of Salisbury!
The chastity he wounded. Cytherea,
Which I with some unwillingness pronounce:
That this fair action may on foot be brought.
Since lion vile hath here deflower'd my dear:
And in this shape when you have brought him thither,
From treason's secret knife and traitors' rage
I am no great Nebuchadnezzar, sir; I have not much
Would be as heavy to me as odious, but
'Twas my inheritance, as the earldom was.
Here, villain; drawn and ready. Where art thou?
Thy words, I grant, are bigger, for I wear not
Nor stony tower, nor walls of beaten brass,
Emptying our bosoms of their counsel sweet,
If there is one, I shall make two in the company.
How found you him?
Why, brother, wherefore stand you on nice points?
A thousand men have broke their fasts to-day,
O jest unseen, inscrutable, invisible,
Swarming with caterpillars?
Why, thou wert better in thy grave than to answer
He eats nothing but doves, love, and that breeds hot
O, the better, sir; for he that drinks all night,
'As false as Cressid.'
Be my so used a guest as not an hour,
ANTIPHOLUS
By my troth, thou hast an open hand. These wise men
like a strong distillation, with stinking clothes
Nay, you were better speak first, and when you were
but, as you say, sir, let your bounty take a nap, I
And yet detested life not shrink thereat!
Golden Apollo, a poor humble swain,
Exeunt Lords
Should loosen him and me.
art full of error; I am sound.
Unto the weary and all-watched night,
Exit DENNIS
By heaven, thy madness shall be paid by weight,
And beauty's crest becomes the heavens well.
And what in us hath seem'd ridiculous,--
Sometime she gallops o'er a courtier's nose,
This cannot be Hector.
As from a voyage, rich with merchandise.
Of no more force to dispossess me, sir,
And she not hear of it?
There is no truth at all i' the oracle:
And so thrive Richard as thy foes may fall!
No more, perchance, does mine, nor his, nor hers.
Yet in this one thing let me blame your grace,
Thoughts speculative their unsure hopes relate,
'Our heir-apparent is a king!
To wear a kerchief! Would you were not sick!
Will not bear question; either say thou'lt do 't,
I think, at the north gate; for there stand lords.
Traverse! go, provide thy money. We will have more
To the health of our general!
Deny their office: only you do lack
Alarbus goes to rest; and we survive
is he inconstant, sir, in his favours?
In pain of your dislike or pain of death,
Those eyes of thine from mine have drawn salt tears,
Hoist with his own petard: and 't shall go hard
That one short minute gives me in her sight:
work?--A likely piece of work, that you should find
And on thy blade and dudgeon gouts of blood,
Go, presently inquire, and so will I,
'tis a sickness denying thee any thing; a death to
Issue to me; that the contending kingdoms
Indeed, he should be a footman by the garments he
Who offered him the crown?
I'll meet thee, Pyramus, at Ninny's tomb.
My favour were as great; be witness this.
Why, by making him uncapable of Othello's place;
Letters to Richmond, you shall answer it.
And claim her with a loving kiss.
Will quench the wonder of her infamy:
contented to be there, in respect of the love I bear
To knaves and all approachers: 'tis most just
Yea, like the stag, when snow the pasture sheets,
That ever, ever, I did yet behold!
Enter TROILUS
May fit us to our shape: if this should fail,
To stir against the butchers of his life!
But that two villains, whose false oaths prevail'd
For what thou professest, a baboon, could he speak,
As doth the blushing discontented sun
If Salisbury wants mercy at thy hands!
Come, come, a hand from either:
But by some power it is,--my love to Hermia,
That can entame my spirits to your worship.
ANNE's train.
For he hath stolen a pax, and hanged must a' be:
That, with this little arm and this good sword,
Kings it makes gods, and meaner creatures kings.
my way: but I would it were morning; for I would
Storm still. Enter KENT and a Gentleman, meeting
Thisbe, is the better; he for a man, God warrant us;
In zeal to you and highly moved to wrath
Stand by, my masters: bring him near the king;
And more and richer, when he strains that lady:
Nay, nothing, Master Moth, but what they look upon.
Good sir, this ring was given me by my wife;
O Lord, sir, the parties themselves, the actors,
That hand which had the strength, even at your door,
Unto the tranect, to the common ferry
And here are to be answer'd. Tell me, my daughters,--
a coal of fire, sometimes plue and sometimes red;
And when we have our armours buckled on,
To meet you on the way, and welcome you.
Why he cannot abide a gaping pig;
rightly, can ever believe such impossible passages
And like the kind life-rendering pelican,
And I can cut the mutton to't.
He shall be welcome too. Where is his son,
me wherefore.
Into a thousand oaths; and all those oaths
gown above.
I saw him once; he was a goodly king.
With pay and thanks, and let's away to London
And but one word with one of us? couple it with
Trip away; make no stay;
To come at first when he doth send for her,
As he stood by whilst I, his forlorn duchess,
Make us thy ministers of chastisement,
A plague of all cowards, I say, and a vengeance too!
Solicit for it straight.
My food, my fortune and my sweet hope's aim,
Well, my good lady.
Seeing thou hast proved so unnatural a father
To look upon him, till the diminution
I do attend here on the general;
Madam, for myself, to heaven I do appeal,
I am innocent as you.'
For nought I did in hate, but all in honour.
uncoined constancy; for he perforce must do thee
I must not hear thee; fare thee well, kind maid;
That wrens make prey where eagles dare not perch:
Whiles you beguile the time and feed your knowledge
While she with harlots feasted in my house.
I know no pain they can inflict upon him
As sensual as the brutish sting itself;
their better safety, to fly away by night.
This ornament
Whiles others fish with craft for great opinion,
Upon our fail? to this point hast thou heard him
Near to the town of Leicester, as we learn
Spurr'd, gall'd and tired by jouncing Bolingbroke.
Therefore away with us to Killingworth.
Second Serving-man	Do what ye dare, we are as resolute.
To lop that doubt, he'll fill this land with arms,
How fain would I have hated all mankind!
But Warwick's king is Edward's prisoner:
subject, makes old hearts fresh: they that went on
know it by thy trembling: now Prosper works upon thee.
My lord?
Do ebb and flow with tears; the bark thy body is,
Shall manifest me rightly. Is it they?
This cannot save you:
Exeunt STANLEY and CATESBY
Keep yet their hearts attending on themselves,
After our sentence plaining comes too late.
Is he not able to discharge the money?
I know my remedy; I must go fetch the
With the sweet silent hours of marriage joys
To buy a slobbery and a dirty farm
Which, like a taper in some monument,
First, let her show her face, and after speak.
Come on, Lord Hastings, will you go with me?
More fond on her than she upon her love:
Against the brows of this resisting town.
Henceforth we banish thee, on pain of death.
Be all my sins remember'd.
So did I, I'll be sworn: he is simply the rarest
And comfort me with cold. I do not ask you much,
adventure would counsel you to a more equal
For my lads to give their dears:
friend, your brother Troilus,--
In faint retire. O, bravely came we off,
spirit, hath sent me to you.
Our discontented counties do revolt;
I know't, my sister's: this approves her letter,
Shall Henry's conquest, Bedford's vigilance,
I am sorry I must never trust thee more,
And ample interchange of sweet discourse,
Which not to have done I think had been in me
Who's there?
Thou cunning'st pattern of excelling nature,
Since this fortune falls to you,
Alas, it is the baseness of thy fear
O, who can give an oath? where is a book?
In any of our towns of garrison.
Make thy demand aloud.
I tell you 'tis not very well. I will make myself
That are given for 'em. Friendship's full of dregs:
But didst thou see them dead?
Herein misled by your suggestion.
to light: who in the night overheard me confessing
If underneath the standard of the French
Contemptuous base-born callet as she is,
Well, lords, we have not got that which we have:
And curtain'd with a counsel-keeping cave,
fair weather that you make yourself: it is needful
Note me this, good friend;
Good words are better than bad strokes, Octavius.
So mix'd in him that Nature might stand up
If with the sap of reason you would quench,
careless desolation; but you are no such man; you
That Silvia is excelling;
But do not break your oaths; for of that sin
When thou hold'st up thy hand: O, let me kiss
But, as it seems, did violence on herself.
But this most cruel usage of your queen,
must have that thanks from Rome, after the measure
Is this exaction?
Enter Page
What is this castle call'd that stands hard by?
Rough quarries, rocks and hills whose heads touch heaven
What doth befall you here. So, fare you well;
supper to-morrow night in Eastcheap: we may do it
What is thy name?
Comes toward Dunsinane. Arm, arm, and out!
'Tis done like Hector; but securely done,
Than any of her lineaments can show her.
Come hither, sir.
'tis shame for us all: so God sa' me, 'tis shame to
By his cockle hat and staff,
'Tis said, man; and farewell.
I hope she will deserve well,--and a little
What, thou?
Some monstrous malefactor. Prithee, friend,
And torture him with grievous lingering death.
Honour and plenteous safety--that you read
Speak, Salisbury; at least, if thou canst speak:
Dispraise the thing that you desire to buy:
My arm is sore; best play with Mardian.
and discourse grow commendable in none only but
But he assails; and our virginity, though valiant,
I am a gentleman.' I'll be sworn thou art;
SCENE I. King Lear's palace.
in the exchange.
writ, and can never find what names the writing
Rape, call you it, my lord, to seize my own,
My dear master,
But words are words; I never yet did hear
Good faith, good faith, the saying did not hold
Drop-heir that killed lusty Pudding, and Master
My lord, I cannot.
To ANGELO
Exit Page
runs down a hill, lest it break thy neck with
If law, authority and power deny not,
And, for my heart disdained that my tongue
The cannons have their bowels full of wrath,
'Twill be heavier soon by the weight of a man.
Unless he live until he be a man.
What do you mean by this haunting of me?
Go bear it to the Centaur, where we host,
For grief is proud and makes his owner stoop.
To foreign casualties, gave her dear rights
loathsomest scab in Greece. When thou art forth in
My lord, I dare not: Sir Pierce of Exton, who
I tell thee, constable, my mistress wears his own hair.
my mistress: I think I saw your wisdom there.
Then deputy of Ireland; who removed,
Great store of room, no doubt, left for the ladies,
That almost mightst have coin'd me into gold,
By devilish policy art thou grown great,
close-stool to give to a nobleman! Look, here he
And fit his mind to death, for his soul's rest.
My lord, we were sent for.
Nothing but sit and sit, and eat and eat!
will go near to be thought so shortly. How answer
My native English, now I must forego:
Once more I'll read the ode that I have writ.
gentleman of excellent breeding, admirable
And Westmoreland, that was engaged, did bear it;
gunpowder Percy, though he be dead: how, if he
'Tis dry enough,--will, with great speed of judgment,
Divide thy lips, than we are confident,
Does fall in travail with her fear:
On him, on him! Look you, how pale he glares!
There are yet missing of your company
Renowned Talbot doth expect my aid,
Fall, when Love please! marry, to each, but one!
I pray you.
Hear me, for I will speak.
My liege, here is a villain and a traitor, that,
SCENE VI. London. Cannon Street.
That life is better life, past fearing death,
would change my humanity with a baboon.
Pauca verba, Sir John; goot worts.
Put your grace in your pocket, sir, for this once,
His wife is in Corioli and his child
There is reasons and causes for it.
To nothing but despair. A thousand knees
I'll draw the form and model of our battle,
That take it on you at the first so roundly.
How now, dear sovereign, and our gracious mother!
arras; and there heard it agreed upon that the
Exeunt
All broken implements of a ruin'd house.
Things done without example, in their issue
I kill'd the slave that was a-hanging thee.
His rigorous course; but since he stands obdurate
So was his will in his old feeble body.
Then call them to our presence; face to face,
Where should I lose my tongue?
Another's issue.
Who should succeed the father but the son?
Behold her topp'd?
out of it you'll run again, rather than suffer
Twelve several times, and I have nightly since
And I am sent to be revenged on him.
young Master Launcelot.
O most delicate fiend!
Prithee, hie thee; he'll come anon:--
scarce, it will not in circumvention deliver a fly
Earth-treading stars that make dark heaven light:
They love you all? Haply, when I shall wed,
Better be held nor more attain'd than by
Mark it, nuncle:
Why he hath thus ensnared my soul and body?
And all is done. Then let the trumpets sound
Sure, one of you does not serve heaven well, that
You can never bring in a wall. What say you, Bottom?
Proof enough to misuse the prince, to vex Claudio,
O, peace, peace!
And he of these that can do most of all
I am too young; I pray you, pardon me.'
Had I as many eyes as thou hast wounds,
Singing
That she may quickly come.
Dicky your boy, that with his grumbling voice
when he got me: therefore was I created with a
SCENE VI. Another room in the Garter Inn.
Her face was to mine eye beyond all wonder;
Fare you well.
Your eye hath too much youth in't: not a month
Enter LUCILIUS, with three Strangers
Although I hate her, I'll not harm her so.
God save your good worships! Marcius is coming
That all in England did repute him dead:
I'll haunt thee like a wicked conscience still,
Join with me to forbid him her resort;
That's clapp'd upon the court-gate.
How is't, my noble lord?
Belike 'tis but a rumour. Good night to you.
How much I had to do to calm his rage!
And given in earnest what I begg'd in jest.
And lo, where George of Clarence sweeps along,
By one whom she esteemeth as his friend.
That do acknowledge Caesar, should I find them
And wrong the reputation of your name,
Well could I bear that England had this praise,
And in this mood will give us any thing.
It was i' the offering!
My curses on her!
What, is the man lunatic?
Or, wing'd with fervor of her love, she's flown
Between the pale complexion of true love
And shall I then be used reproachfully?
general says, you that have so traitorously
Enter AGRIPPA at one door, DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS at another
No, Cassius; for the eye sees not itself,
Would I were as deep under the earth as I am above!
Then Warwick disannuls great John of Gaunt,
'scape hanging for killing that rogue. I have
And I have made a happy peace with him;
In such a righteous fashion as I do,
Let me have it;
He's not prepared for death. Even for our kitchens
Good mother, fetch my bail. Stay, royal sir:
For nature puts me to a heavy task:
Pray God you do.
Why should I, mother? Poor birds they are not set for.
And bid me say to you by word of mouth--
[To EMILIA]  Some of your function, mistress;
Had tongue at will and yet was never loud,
That the contents will show.
Fie, fie, Gratiano! where are all the rest?
A vulgar comment will be made of it,
Where either I must live, or bear no life;
Than I have in this ring: 'twas mine, 'twas Helen's,
What you have seen him do and heard him speak,
Stand in our way. There's for thy labour, Montjoy.
He must be taught and train'd and bid go forth;
proud, violent, testy magistrates, alias fools, as
There is none of my uncle's marks upon you: he
That I have borne your father?
My lord, there are certain nobles of the senate
For my little cure,
Exit HELENA
Farewell, my lord: good wishes, praise and prayers
Do love, prize, honour you.
Shall I keep your hogs and eat husks with them?
cloud, yond huge one, looks like a foul
There's language in her eye, her cheek, her lip,
As you, my lord, or any Scot that this day lives:
Boy, thou hast said to me a thousand times
Not a whit, we defy augury: there's a special
Thou factious Duke of York, descend my throne,
And cried, in fainting, upon Rosalind.
over-lusty at legs, then he wears wooden
To take that course by your consent and voice,
But first, to try her skill,
Though it appear a little out of fashion,
Should have ascended to the roof of heaven,
Traitors, avaunt! Where is the emperor's guard?
And who sits here that is not Richard's subject?
And here, neighbour, here's a cup of charneco.
Pursue him and entreat him to a peace:
Come you hither to me, Master tapster. What's your
And rather than it shall, I will be free
vulgar,--O base and obscure vulgar!--videlicet, He
When gold and silver becks me to come on.
What stronger breastplate than a heart untainted!
With haughty arms this hateful name in us.
My Lord Fitzwater, I do remember well
Now, fair befall you! he deserved his death;
That any one should therefore be suspicious
The lands and waters 'twixt your throne and his
The wild sea of my conscience, I did steer
O, a thousand thousand times: and then, of so
Bliss and goodness on you!
So help me every spirit sanctified,
That looks not heavily and full of fear.
Excited me to treason: their dear loss,
If ever you prove false one to another, since I have
Exeunt
in a quarter--of an hour; paid money that I
I will assay thee: so, defend thyself.
And the moon changes even as your mind.
Regan, I think you are; I know what reason
have before gored the gentle bosom of peace with
To give great Charlemain a pen in's hand,
Know you not he has?
'Tis a notorious villain. Take you this weapon,
Enter SICINIUS and BRUTUS
Uncouple here and let us make a bay
Thy husband is thy lord, thy life, thy keeper,
renowned French physician.
He that commends me to mine own content
Yes, Warwick, Edward dares, and leads the way.
Go fetch fire.
See, what a grace was seated on this brow;
and a traitor.
It cannot be thus long, the sides of nature
What's the matter, woman?
I have begun to plant thee, and will labour
She is stirring, sir: if she will stir hither, I
the fat knight with the great belly-doublet: he
Whom I believe to be most strait in virtue,
no honest man dat shall come in my closet.
Though some of you with Pilate wash your hands
Ere you can take due orders for a priest:
as Helen: an she were not kin to me, she would be as
Plight me the full assurance of your faith;
Should pass this way as you did: O, the Fates!
are very rascals since bonds disgraced them.
To put him to ill thinking.
Else one self mate and mate could not beget
SCENE IV. Florence. The Widow's house.
Thou mayst co-join with something; and thou dost,
crushest the snake!' that is the way to make an
But do not so. I have five hundred crowns,
My Regan counsels well; come out o' the storm.
I am for the air; this night I'll spend
Who shall hinder me?
Do you love my son?
Walk with Leonine; the air is quick there,
Out of my lean and low ability
That ever made eye swerve, had force and knowledge
I do not know: friends all but now, even now,
He should have braved the east an hour ago
They know their master loves to be aloft,
To have his sight thither and back again.
To rouse thee from thy bed, there art thou dead:
Harp on it still shall I till heart-strings break.
Nay, but he'll be here presently: let's go dress him
rareness, as, to make true diction of him, his
Thus by Apollo's great divine seal'd up,
With slaughter's pencil, where revenge did paint
Have aught committed that is hardly borne
And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
When to her beauty I commend my vows,
And I could laugh, I am light and heavy. Welcome.
With an aspect more favourable. Good my lords,
Hubert, keep this boy. Philip, make up:
The hope of comfort. But for thee, fellow,
indeed he was mad for her, and talked of Satan and
odd numbers, either in nativity, chance, or death. Away!
Though little he do feel it, set down sharply.
not worthy to touch Fortune's fingers. Farewell.
It was a mad fantastical trick of him to steal from
I should not live long after I saw Richmond.
Being but fourth of that heroic line.
Which thou hast perpendicularly fell:
That Julius Caesar was a famous man;
Fare you well.
Shall to my flaming wrath be oil and flax.
Am I this patient log--man.
I am yours for the walk; and especially when I walk away.
Forsaken your pernicious faction
How soon my sorrow hath destroy'd my face.
Much good dich thy good heart, Apemantus!
Or seven fair branches springing from one root:
the king's laws in now the king's quarrel: where
This is he;
Hadst thou groan'd for him
Wherein my hope is I shall so prevail
she is virtuous.
What watch the king keeps to maintain the peace,
be hang'd:
The fringed curtains of thine eye advance
The people's enemy is gone, is gone!
You only speak from your distracted soul;
Romeo can,
Nay, then I'll stop your mouth. Bring thou her husband:
Mean you to enjoy him?
Yond crickets shall not hear it.
A word, good sir;
Which, follow'd well, would demonstrate them now
And though the mourning brow of progeny
To pay that duty which you truly owe
possitable, if you can carry her your desires
There's hope in't yet.
Rich in his father's honour, creeps apace,
And to my state grew stranger, being transported
I say, my lords, he has done fair service,
I'll have my bond; speak not against my bond:
SCENE V. Alexandria. MARK ANTONY's camp.
My gracious sovereign, as I rode from Calais,
All murders past do stand excused in this:
paramour for a sweet voice.
For three performers are the file when all
flatter me that thou dost, notwithstanding the poor
Can lift your blood up with persuasion.
From morn till night, out of his pavilion.
For such disguise as haply shall become
Enter PAROLLES
The soldier's pole is fall'n: young boys and girls
It is the bright day that brings forth the adder;
Re-enter JULIET, above
By all your good leaves, gentlemen; here I'll make
Her brother, having both their country quitted
Injurious wasps, to feed on such sweet honey
Thy garments are not spotted with our blood,
Sweet Phebe,--
When as the noble Duke of York was slain,
A nobler man, a braver warrior,
And lie pavilion'd in the fields of France.
Distracted clouds give way; so stand thou forth;
And bid my will avouch it, yet I must not,
Than to be sure they do; for certainties
That have their first conception by mis-dread,
Than in a polite distance.
Cries, ah, ha! to the devil:
Enter PROTEUS
I pray, my lord, pardon me; I took ye for my lord
Taking him apart
And thou shalt have to pay for it of us.
you not see you move him? let me alone with him.
Nay, after that, consume away in rust
your oration; and let him deliver the pigeons to
Will cut their passage through the force of France,
Let thy fair wisdom, not thy passion, sway
Sir,
That you are fool'd, discarded and shook off
Avaunt, thou dreadful minister of hell!
That he did buffet thee, and, in his blows,
Than the rich-jewel'd of Darius,
Writing destruction on the enemy's castle?
knowledge and accordingly valiant.
O Banquo, Banquo,
To trumpet such good tidings! If not well,
To LUCIO
And bonny Kate and sometimes Kate the curst;
By running fast.
Must Edward fall, which peril heaven forfend!
With trembling wings misdoubteth every bush;
But, if I help, what do you promise me?
let the issue show itself.
bidding of a monarch and his countenance enforces homage.
Shall I teach you to know?
Nay, not as one would say, healthy; but so sound as
Unworthy as she is, that we have wrought
I was enforced to send it after him;
Goes foremost in report through Italy.
When therewithal we shall have cause of state
Your castle is surprised; your wife and babes
gravelled for lack of matter, you might take
To time and mortal custom. Yet my heart
How do you, Malvolio?
I am a very villain else.
Fill till the cup be hid.
Through which our policy must make a breach:
Some five or six and thirty of his knights,
Ah! sancta majestas, who would not buy thee dear?
Art not acquainted with him? knows he not thy voice?
So you must be the first that gives this sentence,
SCENE IX. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's camp.
Had rather have us win than him they follow:
Verbatim to rehearse the method of my pen:
France spreads his banners in our noiseless land;
'Tis well borne up.
What, and stake down?
Who comes with him?
Ours be your patience then, and yours our parts;
What fates impose, that men must needs abide;
lost his A B C; to weep, like a young wench that had
Why keep we her? the Grecians keep our aunt:
Sirrah, come on.
Good morrow, fairest: sister, your sweet hand.
Was it not so?
What need you five and twenty, ten, or five,
defend all these: and at all these wards I lie, at a
The boy hath sold him a bargain, a goose, that's flat.
In that you brook it in, it makes him worse:
Dishonour not your mothers; now attest
What hast thou found?
Although, my lord, I know my noble aunt
Enter BRUTUS
See thyself, devil!
Without the assistance of a mortal hand:
But once he slander'd me with bastardy:
Enter three FISHERMEN
I'll swear for 'em.
Dies
So sweet and voluble is his discourse.
Though forfeiters you cast in prison, yet
Is full of virtue, bounty, worth and qualities
it harder for our mistress to devise imposition
And yet I fear you; for you are fatal then
Enter FLAVIUS
A dagger of the mind, a false creation,
Bid her devise
Snail-slow in profit, and he sleeps by day
[Reads]
Thou odouriferous stench! sound rottenness!
Hautboys
We carry not a heart with us from hence
your breeding.
That promise noble service: and they come
it, Master Brook.
Back to our brother England.
That thou hast proved Lucilius' saying true.
Call you this railing?
That's lesser than a little.
Alack, the night comes on, and the bleak winds
Who is thy lord?
Stay a little while.
O, she is lame! love's heralds should be thoughts,
O fie, fie, fie!
Farewell, good cousin; farewell, gentle friends.
Though he had bit me, should have stood that night
My sole earth's heaven and my heaven's claim.
Inclining to them both: were my wife's liver
mettle in death, which commits some loving act upon
Beauteous as ink; a good conclusion.
The Volsces are in arms.
Cassandra doth foresee; and I myself
Friends to this ground.
Ten thousand swelling toads, as many urchins,
Enter GOWER
I grant ye, upon instinct. Well, he is there too,
About their functions friendly.
That brings me food to make misfortune live?
Demand the like.
Doting like me and like me banished,
Stands at a guard with envy; scarce confesses
But thou art deeper read, and better skill'd
The king hath run bad humours on the knight; that's
saw you last that, I fear me, will never out of
There is a thousand Hectors in the field:
is sometime afeared she will do a desperate outrage
Enter DROMIO OF SYRACUSE
complaints, and to deliver us from devices
Stand!
My lovely Aaron, wherefore look'st thou sad,
And why such daily cast of brazen cannon,
Madam, 'twas Ariadne passioning
Those thoughts to me were oaks, to thee like
One, certes, that promises no element
but in the figures and comparisons of it: as
your bowl.
That marks thee out for hell: I say, thou liest,
Have you pray'd to-night, Desdemona?
Then you will bring the chain to her yourself?
For Warwick and his friends, God and Saint George!
Now civil wounds are stopp'd, peace lives again:
Dared to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet--
The soil, the profit and this kind of life,
Enter QUINCE for the Prologue
For eminent assistants; but, spider-like,
6. Marquess Dorset, bearing a sceptre of gold,
But now I see this one is one too much,
boy. Now bless thyself: thou mettest with things
Whither I am going.
Indeed, neighbour, he comes too short of you.
Young Romeo is it?
My name is Marina.
Summon a session, that we may arraign
His queen with child makes her desire--
And Cassandra laughed.
you could make it another.
A fool in good clothes, and something like thee.
Durst make too bold a herald of my tongue
That faced and braved me in this matter so?
And now, to soothe your forgery and his,
I'll warrant you,
And sends the poor well pleased from my gate.
An if I live until I be a man,
Enter the DAUPHIN, ORLEANS, RAMBURES, and others
change, would give an eye to boot.
Re-speaking earthly thunder. Come away.
Good gentleman! the wrongs I have done thee stir
The shadow of myself form'd in her eye:
His mother was a witch, and one so strong
No? why, 'tis a plain case: he that went, like a
Will hold at Windsor; so inform the lords:
I have, my lord.
By him that made us all, I am resolved
their damnation than he was before guilty of those
John. Ah, poor heart! he is so shaked of a burning
But when I came to man's estate,
An eye-sore to our solemn festival!
Geese, villain!
beautified Ophelia,'--
A retreat sounded
That will I, should I die the hour after.
I, madam? no, I have no reason for it;
Daring an opposite to every danger:
Re-enter KATARINA
Out of your grace, devise, ordain, impose
Hark Tamora, the empress of my soul,
Sharpen with cloyless sauce his appetite;
Is this the madman?
Come, enough.
And these assume but valour's excrement
More fiery by night's blackness; hereditary,
A thirsty evil; and when we drink we die.
Come, brother John; full bravely hast thou flesh'd
Save thee, friend, and thy music: dost thou live by
My lord, his majesty commended him to you by young
Doth that bode weeping?
A beggarly account of empty boxes,
Whom after under the confession's seal
some care.
At my request he would not.
Give me my boots, I say.
In sooth, I know not why I am so sad:
How have you known the miseries of your father?
Enter Pirates
And of a dragon and a finless fish,
And, as occasion serves, this noble queen
Be call'd our mother, but our grave; where nothing,
No more than he that threats. To arms let's hie!
us! it is a world to see. Well said, i' faith,
And fight against that monstrous rebel Cade,
I'll buy him of you.
Wilt lay the leaven on all proper men;
I have to use: thy frank election make;
They are at hand and ready to effect it.
Who grieves much for your weakness, and by me
An hour of quiet shortly shall we see;
My lords, I care not, so much I am happy
Fell Warwick's brother and by that our foe.
Enter a Messenger
A present murderer does prepare
As sweet as balm, as soft as air, as gentle,--
She is Lavinia, therefore must be loved.
As yon grim looks do testify.
I like the new tire within excellently, if the hair
Unbind my sons, reverse the doom of death;
My dukedom of thee, which perforce, I know,
For I have only been silent so long
His antidotes are poison, and he slays
For your great seats now quit you of great shames.
Where did you dwell when I was King of England?
Then you should hate Rome, as he does. Can you,
And cheers these hands that slew thy sire and brother
But be thou arm'd for some unhappy words.
As are behoveful for our state to-morrow:
Do not then walk too open.
You pay a great deal too dear for what's given freely.
Like a mad lad,
That the precipitation might down stretch
Next time I'll keep my dreams unto myself,
I will kiss thy royal finger, and take leave. I am
Do we so.
Good friend, I prithee, take him in thy arms;
Crush him together rather than unfold
Have struck but thus much show of fire from Brutus.
The curfew-bell hath rung, 'tis three o'clock:
Some entertainment for them in their tents.
plough for her sweet love three years. But, most
stealing, fighting--Hark you now! Would any but
his helm more hacked than Hector's, and how he looks,
To our pavilion shall I lead you, sir.
With every minute you do change a mind,
thy fat woman. Let her descend, bully, let her
Sweet youth, I pray you, chide a year together:
O, then his lines would ravish savage ears
What say you, uncle?
Return in haste, for I do feast to-night
Exeunt ABHORSON and POMPEY
Go to, go to: no matter for the dish, sir.
To Adriana, villain, hie thee straight:
Besides, the sore terms we stand upon with the gods
[Aside]  My tears begin to take his part so much,
I know he will be glad of our success;
Till you did make him misinterpret me,
And, with wild looks, bid me devise some mean
been vicious
is no whipstock: my lady has a white hand, and the
So they do nothing, 'tis a venial slip:
do you service and you think we are ruffians, you'll
I grant I am a woman; but withal
Then, in despite of brooded watchful day,
Upon the hills adjoining to the city
To the greater bench: in a rebellion,
Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of
She sung, and made the night-bird mute,
I am with both: each army hath a hand;
The town sounds a parley.
Enough, sweet Suffolk; thou torment'st thyself;
Myself or Menelaus?
As full of spirit as the month of May,
Dost thou conjure for wenches, that thou call'st
And made a brine-pit with our bitter tears?
They will not stick to say you envied him,
SCENE II: Belmont. A room in PORTIA'S house.
Take that for your fair lady.
It may be you have mistaken him, my lord.
Who shut their coward gates on atomies,
Ay, sir, in Pisa have I often been,
He and his toothpick at my worship's mess,
A Norman.
Thunder. First Apparition: an armed Head
Even by my god I swear to thee I will.
More worthier than their voices. They know the corn
Against my crown, my oath, my dignity,
O, yes; if any hour meet a sergeant, a' turns back for
I shall have more than you can dream of yet;
A most royal one; the centurions and their charges,
Into our hands; and to confine yourself
'Twas very faintly he said 'Rise;' dismiss'd me
Doors, that were ne'er acquainted with their wards
Particular addition. from the bill
To suffer with him. Good love, call him back.
My fair Rosalind, I come within an hour of my promise.
With ships made cities, condemn myself to lack
Exit
You shall do marvellous wisely, good Reynaldo,
Puts on his pretty looks, repeats his words,
Yours, Cinna; and, my valiant Casca, yours;
Will not you?
You'll leave your noise anon, ye rascals: do you
My lord it shall be done.
Exit
What say'st thou, Henry, wilt thou yield the crown?
Why, 'tis this naming of him does him harm.
According to the phrase or the addition
Now, God delay our rebellion! as we are ourselves,
If you do love old men, if your sweet sway
Scare Troy out of itself. But, march away:
Fellow, what miracle dost thou proclaim?
see wonders.
sufficient. Yet his means are in supposition: he
on you, I can hardly think you my master.
Dance in Duke Theseus' house triumphantly,
To hear him named, and cannot come to him.
So shall I evermore be bound to thee;
And then to dinner. You are passing welcome,
I will be married to a wealthy widow,
That he misconstrues all that you have done.
Over her passion; who, most rebel-like,
In very good time: speak not you to him till we
Ay, if I be alive and your mind hold and your dinner
Why, Jessica!
Be plain, good son, and homely in thy drift;
Come, good sweet lady. Prithee, Virgilia, turn thy
There wants no diligence in seeking him,
Wilt thou conceal this dark conspiracy?
And stay there, Dromio, till I come to thee.
O heavens forfend!
His rougher accents for malicious sounds,
Adieu, sir.
What this maid is, or what is like to be,
Of any promise that hath pass'd from him.
I mean, that married her, alack, good man!
Should of another therefore be abused!
As on the other side it takes from you.
Master doctor, my daughter is in green: when you
Please you, I'll meet with you upon the mart
Hold unbewail'd their way. Welcome to Rome;
Of death, contagion, and unnatural sleep:
No: know the gallant monarch is in arms
'cuckoo' never so?
In every thing but in loving Benedick.
Why, then, I will. Farewell, old Gaunt.
As quarrelous as the weasel; nay, you must
Who, not the duke? yes, your beggar of fifty; and
belly, ere I should come by a fire to thaw me: but
Have some unhappy passenger in chase.
Coursed one another down his innocent nose
Enter DUKE and THURIO
To say thou'lt enter friendly.
In good sadness, I do not know; either it is there,
Both for myself and them, but, chief of all,
Come, let us hence, and put on other weeds;
But far unfit to be a sovereign.
Kingdoms and provinces.
And we that sell by gross, the Lord doth know,
While we return these dukes what we decree.
And once again cry 'Charge upon our foes!'
For, since the mortal and intestine jars
Of the ranged empire fall! Here is my space.
That's news indeed.
So the were bleeding-new, my lord, there's no meat
As great as that thou fear'st.
Patch'd with foul moles and eye-offending marks,
And with her plague; her sin his injury,
We have made inquiry of you; and we hear
And Jove, for your love, would infringe an oath.
But breeds the giver a return exceeding
must die. Come, headsman, off with his head.
of a world ransomed, or one destroyed: a notable
Let me have judgment and the Jew his will.
That hath abused and dishonour'd me
In single opposition, hand to hand,
And often at his very loose decides
With prayers for the provider.
known to Desdemona: if she will return me my
We shall not spend a large expense of time
where he answers again,
Any retirement, any sequestration
How ugly night comes breathing at his heels:
Shall I set down your answer so?
vill cut his ears.
And spite of spite needs must I rest awhile.
O, these are barren tasks, too hard to keep,
Now, Decius Brutus, yours: now yours, Metellus;
Though you perceive me not how I give line.
We did keep time, sir, in our catches. Sneck up!
My lord, entreat him by no means to stay.
No, truly, Ursula, she is too disdainful;
Expects my coming, there to see me shipp'd.
Another Hero!
If you should smile he grows impatient.
As well possess'd; my love is more than his;
Such Brooks are welcome to me, that o'erflow such
not been common in my love. I will, sir, flatter my
It were an honest action to say
Why, then, lead on. O, that a man might know
As thus, 'I know his father and his friends,
What noise is this I hear? Dare any be so bold to
Not Caesar's valour hath o'erthrown Antony,
Is all unpossible.
And in his wisdom hastes our marriage,
does lend articles?
That were the most, if he should husband you.
Peace, you mumbling fool!
Methought it was very sweet,
I would fain prove so. But what might you think,
With blood removed but little from her own?
Go with me, like good angels, to my end;
To her unworthiness: it nothing steads us
'twere more honour some were away.
God and King Henry govern England's realm.
Pray you, do so: she's a very tattling woman.
Nor the dejected 'havior of the visage,
if she be fair, 'tis the better for her; an she be
That is but scratch'd withal: I'll touch my point
You'll find it wholesome. Lo, where comes that rock
SCENE I. The city gate.
My services are bound. Wherefore should I
That is deceiveable. But here the lady comes.
My hand is ready; may it do him ease.
warmed and cooled by the same winter and summer, as
They do not love that do not show their love.
Being now awake, I'll queen it no inch farther,
Then call our captains and our colours forth.
Nor can there be that deity in my nature,
Will not King Richard let me speak with him?
Then love-devouring death do what he dare;
Are you wise?
SCENE V. The Tower-walls.
Now, sir, hast thou cried her through the market?
If e'er again I meet him beard to beard,
Orsino's enemy. A witchcraft drew me hither:
own imperfection: but, good Sir John, as you have
Ah, Warwick, why hast thou withdrawn thyself?
Condemned villain, I do apprehend thee:
And every day that comes comes to decay
He purposed to his wife's sole son--a widow
yourself clear, why, I am glad of it; but if you
Next, your son gone; and he most violent author
Could not a worm, an adder, do so much?
If money were as certain as your waiting,
Lead, monster; we'll follow. I would I could see
Some bear out SLY. A trumpet sounds
That I had no angry wit to be a lord.
Besides the thane of Cawdor. But 'tis strange:
How now, sirrah?
Lord Junius Brutus sware for Lucrece' rape,
wages. She hath more qualities than a water-spaniel;
Of some strange nature, letting it there stand
lastly and finally, mine host of the Garter.
Neither.
Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness.
difference betwixt our Bohemia and your Sicilia.
For 'tis thy presence that exhales this blood
The messengers of Venice stay the meat;
Pray, then, foresee me one.
Madam, with all my heart.
Is very much unto the prince and Claudio,
Agreed.
Wherein the king stands generally condemn'd.
Will this description satisfy him?
Name Cressida and thy life shall be as safe
Procure your sureties for your days of answer.
We'll forward towards Warwick and his mates;
He hath rid his prologue like a rough colt; he knows
Unwieldy, slow, heavy and pale as lead.
Not of that dye which their investments show,
To cheque his reign, but they will cherish it;
Makes thee the happier: heavens, deal so still!
Ten and eleven. Woman, commend me to her; I will
And she can have no more than all I have:
till the bell have told eleven. Heaven bless the
And let her speak of me before her father:
A foe to tyrants, and my country's friend;
That labour, sir. All's now done, but the ceremony
There lies that Tybalt.
In virtue than in vengeance: they being penitent,
Good pilgrim, you do wrong your hand too much,
The ne'er-lust-wearied Antony.
Makes this place Paradise.
will you dismiss the people?
It is too little, helping him to all;
May speak unbonneted to as proud a fortune
you.
Till you have drench'd our steeples, drown'd the cocks!
Enter a Townsman of Saint Alban's, crying 'A miracle!'
And nothing grieves me heartily indeed
Of very ill manner; he'll speak with you, will you or no.
He is arrested, but will not obey;
Marry, this is yet but young, and may be left
father had never a house but the cage.
Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
Prithee, my king, be quiet. Seest thou here,
Shall I tell you a lie? I do despise a liar as I do
One fairer than my love! the all-seeing sun
Strong-fixed is the house of Lancaster,
Enter the Sheriff, and BUCKINGHAM, with halberds, led to execution
When I forget to send to Antony,
Or dive into the bottom of the deep,
A contract of eternal bond of love,
I will play three myself.
Stand in the plague of custom, and permit
Of King Polixenes, it should here be laid,
As haggerds of the rock.
birth and virtue gives you heraldry. You are not
I did appoint?
What need the bridge much broader than the flood?
We do deliver you. Get you therefore hence,
By my troth, and in good earnest, and so God mend
'Widow Dido' said you? you make me study of that:
Sound drums and trumpets boldly and cheerfully;
mistress is one, and I am her fool. When men come
Exit
In deputation left behind him here,
And, but for Owen Glendower, had been king,
thou, Master Brook, shalt know him for knave and
I prithee, turn aside and weep for her,
And dart not scornful glances from those eyes,
With meditating that she must die once,
hope you have no intent to turn husband, have you?
RICHARD
You orphan heirs of fixed destiny,
My will! 'od's heartlings, that's a pretty jest
For you have show'd me that which well approves
Cause the musicians play me that sad note
now shalt thou be moved. Give me a cup of sack to
The best persuasions to the contrary
If e'er my will did trespass 'gainst his love,
O, let us pay the time but needful woe,
I love him not, nor fear him; there's my creed:
I come one way of the Plantagenets.
There is more news:
To-morrow, or at further space, to appear
Drawing
Of every virtue gives renown to men!
Bethink you, father; for the difference
Exit OSRIC
The which no balm can cure but his heart-blood
But fettle your fine joints 'gainst Thursday next,
I look'd upon her with a soldier's eye,
I shall take it, sir: we have used our throats in Egypt.
As in his shape. Go, sirrah, to my cell;
Good expedition be my friend, and comfort
I prithee, put them off.
If those that care to keep your royal person
Ay, Hamlet.
Cousin of Buckingham, and you sage, grave men,
Like a poor prisoner in his twisted gyves,
Because we know, on Valentine's report,
Either led or driven, as we point the way;
He comes too short of that great property
If you shall prove
But will suspect 'twas he that made the slaughter?
No, good-faced sir; no, sweet sir.
Exeunt
I took thee for thy better: take thy fortune;
condition of a man!
It is extempore, from my mother-wit.
Hath not the ring upon it; it is gone.
In undeserved extremes: see else yourself;
Thou art too slow to do thy master's bidding,
And yet I am sure you are not satisfied
Thou disease of a friend, and not himself!
Yield, my lord protector; yield, Winchester;
Lysander's love, that would not let him bide,
Some of us love you well; and even those some
As he cried 'Thus let be': to as much end
So can I give no reason, nor I will not,
On every trifle. When he returns from hunting,
These banish'd men that I have kept withal
Sirrah, were I at home,
Hang him, truant! there's no true drop of blood in
Froth, I would not have you acquainted with
of his valour. He is, indeed, sir, the most skilful,
Falstaff will learn the humour of the age,
It may be good: pride hath no other glass
I live with bread like you, feel want,
That nature pranks her in attracts my soul.
EPILOGUE
That I were couching with the doctor's clerk.
Thy brother Edward, and thyself the sea
not to think what I can, nor indeed I cannot think,
Received deep scars in France and Normandy?
O, 'twas a din to fright a monster's ear,
But, he away, 'tis noble.
O slow-wing'd turtle! shall a buzzard take thee?
When in the streets he meets such golden gifts.
Such gallant chiding: for, besides the groves,
But to know so must be my benefit;
who are of such sensible and nimble lungs that
What will I do, thinkest thou?
Is it not true, Master Page?
And will create thee empress of Rome,
To lie discolour'd by this place of peace?
By one that looks on feeders?
and go to buffets, for moving such a dish of
Thy arm may do thee justice: here is mine.
I think there be six Richmonds in the field;
them with a most Christian-like fear.
Nor ever didst thou draw thy sword on me:
Enter MENENIUS AGRIPPA
All flaxen was his poll:
Exeunt
His countenance likes me not.
Enter a Post
Mistress, how mean you that?
And follow me with speed: I'll to the king:
That I was cast: and even but now he spake,
Open, locks,
hath made her mistress of the feast, and she lays it
Cover your heads and mock not flesh and blood
In such an honour: how may I deserve it
And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee
I knew him tyrannous; and tyrants' fears
See, and then speak yourselves.
It would be my disgrace and your discomfort:
That I was disdainful, and that I had my good wit
O gracious lady,
I think it be no other but e'en so:
Studies my lady? mistress, look on me;
Is a foul traitor to proud Hereford's king:
if you should die before him, where's her dower?
That flesh is heir to, 'tis a consummation
For so he calls me: now I feed myself
That Cranmer is return'd with welcome,
I will talk further with you.
Lend me a light. Know we this face or no?
Five thousand drops pays that.
That, if requiring fail, he will compel;
I was told that  by one that knows him better than
I would lose all, ay, sacrifice them all
love keep little company together now-a-days; the
Exeunt PROTEUS and SILVIA severally
Her ashes, in an urn more precious
grace! Some say he shall be stoned; but that death
The pride of Suffolk and the cardinal,
That's a deep story of a deeper love:
If Warwick take us we are sure to die.
COUNTESS
Thou hadst but power over his mortal body,
merchant was this, that was so full of his ropery?
to-morrow: I have a jest to execute that I cannot
Exeunt
professed apprehension?
The wise and fool, the artist and unread,
When thousands weep more than did laugh at it.
In very likeness of a roasted crab,
O my good lord,
He'll drop his heart into the sink of fear
Their very noses had been counsellors
The holding.
Are now confined two mighty monarchies,
What hast thou done, unnatural and unkind?
A whole armado of convicted sail
Enter one with water
Well, say, sir.
That shake not, though they blow perpetually.
A drop of water in the breaking gulf,
Exit
Comes to the entertainer--
To those that make us both,--fair ladies, you:
Thou hotly lust'st to use her in that kind
I know thee well;
Of what we blame him for.
I will not lend thee a penny.
It is engender'd in the eyes,
I am betray'd, by keeping company
might see from far some forty truncheoners draw to
Alas, my liege, my wife is dead to-night;
Enjoys it; but in gross brain little wots
Nor never needed that I should entreat,
The firstlings of my hand. And even now,
Looking all downwards to behold our cheeks
Nor tongue, to tell me who hath martyr'd thee:
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY VI, EXETER, GLOUCESTER,  WARWICK, SOMERSET, and SUFFOLK; the BISHOP OF  WINCHESTER, RICHARD PLANTAGENET, and others.  GLOUCESTER offers to put up a bill; BISHOP OF WINCHESTER snatches it, and tears it
lady in the fountain of our love?
They are all forth. Well, I will walk myself
A fall off of a tree.
Be large in mirth; anon we'll drink a measure
Enter a rabble of Citizens (Plebeians), with the AEdiles
Most heartily I do beseech the court
I scarce did know you, uncle: there lies your niece,
Before I be convict by course of law,
Non, je reciterai a vous promptement: de hand, de
O, 'tis the curse in love, and still approved,
Wouldst thou not spit at me and spurn at me
As falcon doth the fowl, is yet a devil
only numbers ratified; but, for the elegancy,
And pity to the general wrong of Rome--
Fellow, be gone: I cannot brook thy sight:
On pure heart's love to greet the tender princes.
O, farewell, honest soldier:
Let's along.
Brought them to be lamented. Our army shall
He that takes that doth take my heart withal.
For vice repeated is like the wandering wind.
Namely, to Hastings, Derby, Buckingham;
Did an Egyptian to my mother give;
Unless she do it under this excuse,
I come to have thee thrust me out of doors.
It's true, good lieutenant.
Thou seest that all the grace that she hath left
Standing on slippers, which his nimble haste
To bathe in fiery floods, or to reside
Advise you what you say; the minister is here.
Thy friend no less
We are yours i' the garden: shall's attend you there?
To my revenge: but in my terms of honour
Laid any scruple in your way, which might
Verily, I speak it in the freedom of my knowledge:
Your spirits shine through you. Within this hour at most
My words disbench'd you not.
Away! vexation almost stops my breath,
him so, that he shall suppose no other but that he
This is to horse. Adieu, noble Agrippa.
For then, and not till then, he felt himself,
Both field and city ours, he never stood
If Somerset be unworthy of the place,
Is this your speeding? nay, then, good night our part!
And yet methinks I do not like this tune.
Caesar's ambition,
No, Kate? I will tell thee in French; which I am
Accuse the thunderer, whose bolt, you know,
Would fail her obligation: if, sir, perchance
By your furtherance I am clothed in steel;
Show'd like a mine. Their dwarfish pages were
To seek their fortunes farther than at home
When he bestrides the lazy-pacing clouds
I pray you, see him presently discharged,
Exit
Hard as the palm of ploughman: this thou tell'st me,
RICHARD
He will make you a hundred and fifty pounds jointure.
Nothing but males. Will it not be received,
Of hinds and peasants, rude and merciless:
Go to him, Dolabella, bid him yield;
She is our capital demand, comprised
Alack, our terrene moon
We call a nettle but a nettle and
As I am woman,--now alas the day!--
gentleman till my return.
I know my course. The spirit that I have seen
He is a man, setting his fate aside,
Blind with the pin and web but theirs, theirs only,
Who is that that spake?
What should I say? he was too good to be
Alas, poor souls, it grieved my heart to hear what
When lion rough in wildest rage doth roar.
Marry, and did; but if you be remember'd,
And drink carouses to the next day's fate,
To put down Richard, that sweet lovely rose,
I am not married, Caesar: let me hear
Is't a verdict?
What will whole months of tears thy father's eyes?
Right, if doing nothing be death by the law.
Antony
But now in arms you strengthen it with yours:
And if she chance to nod I'll rail and brawl
And I will kiss thy detestable bones
But if you would consider the true cause
Upon my death the French can little boast;
And kill the bees that yield it with your stings!
She swooned almost at my pleasing tale,
We'll over-reach the greybeard, Gremio,
The other found out there.
The brother of the Duke of Burgundy,
Farewell, my gracious lord; I'll to my castle.
The leaf of eglantine, whom not to slander,
of boots that have been candle-cases, one buckled,
Therefore I shall beseech you, if you please
When thou comest thither--
Than my fortunes to me.
How now, my love! why is your cheek so pale?
Exeunt
Should be deliver'd to his holiness
And pluck my magic garment from me. So:
'Gainst parricides did all their thunders bend;
The worst that may befall me in this case,
What, my young master? O, my gentle master!
Mark your divorce, young sir,
Daughter, remember what I told you: if the prince
The knee before him, and returns in peace
Came from the north and thus it did import:
Three months from twelve; then, let me see; the rate--
And basely put it up without revenge?
Hymen from heaven brought her,
Where is it?
Shall see thy virtue witness'd every where.
Hear us, great kings: vouchsafe awhile to stay,
I shall not be hang'd now, although I would;
But vows to every purpose must not hold:
that they live by your bare words.
And make a dark night too of half the day--
I do beseech you, whither is he gone?
We the globe can compass soon,
But for the end it works to. Come; our stomachs
SCENE II. A street.
They were trained together in their childhoods; and
All the quarters that they know
Too far i' the land: 'tis like to be loud weather;
Caesar must bleed for it! And, gentle friends,
How now, madam!
Whose church-like humours fits not for a crown.
And only hitherward. I leave your honours.
Enter EDMUND, with a letter
Once this,--your long experience of her wisdom,
O, thus I found her, straying in the park,
Well mayst thou know her by thy own proportion,
No doubt they rose up early to observe
Confound them by some course, and come to me,
If that thou be'st a Roman, take it forth;
Now, signior, what news?
I am quit.
We'll follow Cade, we'll follow Cade!
Let me in safety raise me from my knees
Before they think of us.
Ay, full as dearly as I love myself.
horses ready?
Deserved this so dishonour'd rub, laid falsely
Is it not as this mouth should tear this hand
Against those honours deep and broad wherewith
To an untirable and continuate goodness:
Would you, the supervisor, grossly gape on--
'Sblood, I would my face were in your belly!
I' faith, I thank him; he hath bid me to a calf's
Yield him, who all thy human sons doth hate,
Clarence comes.
Caius, I am come to fetch you home. I am sworn of
So is Alcides beaten by his page;
Met him in boroughs, cities, villages,
That were we talking of, and of his anger.
Tell thou the lamentable tale of me
And welcome more common; for that's nothing but words.
Many dream not to find, neither deserve,
For shame, be friends, and join for that you jar:
Come, to this gear. You are a good archer, Marcus;
Flourish. Enter KING, COUNTESS, LAFEU, the two French Lords, with Attendants
Thy case, dear friend,
And sigh'd his soul toward the Grecian tents,
She can milk;' look you, a sweet virtue in a maid
Very reverend sport, truly; and done in the testimony
And then I will proclaim young Henry king.
Let fancy still my sense in Lethe steep;
That, I being absent and my place supplied,
O, a pit of clay for to be made
And fertile every wish, a million.
She says you have some goodly jest in hand:
you stand on distance, your passes, stoccadoes, and
Than what he chooses.
So much she doteth on her Mortimer.
back again with advantage. Be with me betimes in
Mass, and well said; a merry whoreson, ha!
Enter the Thieves again
Wife, children, servants, all
Why thou art thus incensed. Let him go, Gertrude.
My purposes do draw me much about:
And bears with glasses, elephants with holes,
Tell me, I beseech you, which is the readiest way
I pray you, tell Signior Lucentio that his father is
wept to have seen our parting; why, my grandam,
thou shalt find the best king of good fellows.
Good night.
What! did my brother Henry spend his youth,
And temperately proceed to what you would
The heart that conn'd them.
Madam, all joy befal your grace!
And will that thou henceforth attend on us.
To the expecters of our Trojan part;
Dreading the curse that money may buy out;
women's modesty; and gave such orderly and
A scum of Bretons, and base lackey peasants,
ne'er been born!
foot, sometimes my portly belly.
And give their fasting horses provender,
Thy son by this hath married. Wonder not,
He spake of her, as Dian had hot dreams,
Out of thy honest truth, to play the woman.
How fondly dost thou spur a forward horse!
And I.
Yet show some pity.
Her that so wishes and her humble love!
not? come, tell me true: it shall be the better for you.
Your mother.
You must not enter.
Where hast thou been, my heart? Dost thou hear, lady?
shalt accompany us to the place; where we will, not
Enter PERICLES, wet
With visages displayed, to talk and greet.
Tell her the process of Antonio's end;
Remembering how I love thy company.
Of prisoners' ransom and of soldiers slain,
For I am sure she is not buried.
But where they mean to sink ye. All good people,
As it doth me--a nobler sir ne'er lived
has letters from the general, wherein he gives my
And look upon, as if the tragedy
That like a football you do spurn me thus?
In earnest, shall I say?
my daughter; which, in the minority of them both,
Speak to me; I shall answer for her.
My liege, it is young Henry, earl of Richmond.
Take any shape but that, and my firm nerves
Well; go to; very well.
My chaplain to no creature living, but
drunk; he sweats not to overthrow your Almain; he
faults I have committed to your worship and to give
Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven,
We shall try fortune in a second fight.
Therefore in fierce tempest is he coming,
There are a kind of men so loose of soul,
And sword and shield,
But if you hunt these bear-whelps, then beware:
O abominable!
And God befriend us, as our cause is just!
keep so good a house. Many a time and often I ha'
Ready, with every nod, to tumble down
Sweet-heart, see, they bark at me.
That I have seen inhabit in those cheeks?
deservest it.
of my mouth, ere it is made and finished. I speak
bread and garlic: say that I said so. Farewell.
complain of good breeding or comes of a very dull kindred.
I speak no more than what my soul intends;
Forsworn my company and rail'd at me,
All comfort, joy, in this most gracious lady,
At meeting tears the cloudy cheeks of heaven.
Of hot and cold, he was nor sad nor merry.
The shallowest thick-skin of that barren sort,
His flight was madness: when our actions do not,
No court in Europe is too good for thee;
Juno but an Ethiope were;
And see him safe i' the Tower.
How canst thou tell she will deny thy suit,
As daylight doth a lamp; her eyes in heaven
To study fashions to adorn my body:
Exeunt
All hail, Macbeth, thou shalt be king hereafter!
if he break the peace, he ought to enter into a
Awake! what, ho, Brabantio! thieves! thieves! thieves!
Where England?
And topping all others in boasting.
I am bound by oath, and therefore pardon me.
Fare thee well, king: sith thus thou wilt appear,
The front of heaven was full of fiery shapes,
And I with him; for he hath done me wrong.
Not one amongst us, save yourself, but says
I see thy grieved heart: thy sad aspect
Be not familiar with her.
a-wooing, 'Priami,' is my man Tranio, 'regia,'
This hideous rashness: answer my life my judgment,
But from what cause he will by no means speak.
Should have been cherish'd by her child-like duty,
Oft expectation fails and most oft there
I pray you, do not fall in love with me,
That's my brave lord!
Are bringing forth our youth. We'll break our walls,
Why dost thou so oppress me with thine eye?
them and foot them too. A plague of all cowards!
This haste hath wings indeed.
King Richard Coeur-de-lion was thy father:
Tarry I here, I but attend on death:
To-morrow, in mine opinion, is too sudden;
To ORLANDO
With her?
Now God in heaven forbid!
Where is your sister, and Hortensio's wife?
This rest might yet have balm'd thy broken senses,
Your friends, sir; the hangman. You must be so
Who is here so rude that would not be a Roman? If
To enter conquerors and to proclaim
But what the repining enemy commends,
his miseries, Britain be fortunate and flourish in
Yearly three thousand pounds, which by thee lately
To-morrow shall we visit you again.
hath in quarrelling, 'tis thought among the prudent
And why, I pray you? Who might be your mother,
Ay, while you live, draw your neck out o' the collar.
Who, after great Hostilius, here was king;
DON
And, like a traitor to the name of God,
That instant was I turn'd into a hart;
Argued betwixt the Duke of York and him;
way then to unfool me again? Set down the basket,
It is most meet we arm us 'gainst the foe;
To love-sick Dido's sad attending ear
Where is Duncan's body?
So far forth as herself might be her chooser,
Mewling and puking in the nurse's arms.
The anointed sovereign of sighs and groans,
Fie! you must give way.
Like it your grace,
O, me alone! make you a sword of me?
And see the cities and the towns defaced
[Reads]  Upon his many protestations to marry me
The last is, for my men; they are the poorest,
But when we in our viciousness grow hard--
In this bare island by your spell;
'Shylock, we would have moneys:' you say so;
If we obey them not, this will ensue,
Exeunt QUEEN and Ladies
He, on his right, asking a wife for Edward.
And which, without desert, because thine eye
Hold, Warwick, seek thee out some other chase,
Exeunt BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS
Enter VINCENTIO
Will not go from my mind; I have much to do,
And in the towns, as they do march along,
Bid my guard watch; leave me.
In token of which duty, if he please,
Dizzy-eyed fury and great rage of heart
The element itself, till seven years' heat,
Even for the loss of thee, having no more,
And hang a calf's-skin on those recreant limbs.
Becomes not Titus' brother: get thee gone:
But he's a tried and valiant soldier.
And our air shakes them passing scornfully:
Indeed? I heard it not: then it draws near the season
three-and-twenty, or that youth would sleep out the
With the Duke of Suffolk.
Nettled and stung with pismires, when I hear
Lord, no; yet I love thee too. And while thou
All tongues speak of him, and the bleared sights
No, no, my lord, your grace is perjured much,
The Genius and the mortal instruments
All France will be replete with mirth and joy,
Why, 'tis a gull, a fool, a rogue, that now and then
Good dawning to thee, friend: art of this house?
I tell you what Launce, his man, told me: he loved
To public ear:
I am impatient of my tarriance.
Heaven knows, not I;
Either of condemnation or approof;
'Tis breath thou lack'st, and that breath wilt thou lose.
to the most wholesome physic of thy health-giving
Enter DOCTOR CAIUS and RUGBY
Is all thy comfort shut in Gloucester's tomb?
'Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star;
and between these main parcels of dispatch effected
Made louder by the o'er-fed breast
How went he under him?
An odd man, lady! every man is odd.
In praises sauced with lies.
No.
Art thou a feodary for this act, and look'st
Ay, that's my boy! thy father hath full oft
Each bound it chafes. What have you there?
My wife and children's ghosts will haunt me still.
A noble spirit!
And, dying, mention it within their wills,
de, do de, do de. Bless thee from whirlwinds,
I would my skill were subject to thy curse.
'Tis 'long of you that spur me with such questions.
Enter CLEON, the governor of Tarsus, with DIONYZA, and others
Thrust in between the paction of these kingdoms,
Ay, and since too, murders have been perform'd
Honour and virtue and conversed with such
seven stars are no more than seven is a pretty reason.
From whom we thought it meet to hide our love
Our separation so abides, and flies,
Good day and happiness, dear Rosalind!
Is't come to this? In faith, hath not the world
and hasty, like a Scotch jig, and full as
Nay, do not wonder at it: you are made
The lady speaks in Welsh
And thou, and I, sit round about some fountain,
No, my lord.
They break their faith to God as well as us:
Navarre had notice of your fair approach;
And none of you will bid the winter come
I oft deliver'd from his forfeitures
pitiful-hearted Titan, that melted at the sweet tale
And spurn in pieces posts of adamant:
Thou subtle, perjured, false, disloyal man!
You, that are king, though he do wear the crown,
To visit him to-morrow or next day:
Distinctly his full function.
Hath, for a few light crowns, lightly conspired,
To, to, to--
In such a night
Till thou give joy; until thou bid me joy,
Away with them! let them be clapp'd up close.
Fear not, my lord: that Power that made you king
Gave sign for me to leave you: so I did;
And with your queen. I am his cupbearer:
Never,--O fault!--reveal'd myself unto him,
You taking airs, with lameness!
But five and twenty. O God, thy arm was here;
Exit Provost
SCENE IV. Plains near Tewksbury.
Fair Philomela, she but lost her tongue,
And fall to reprobation.
never return to tell one.
By any voice or order of the field?
Jove's Mercury, and herald for a king!
Shall keep his native progress, but surcease:
Since once I sat upon a promontory,
Thou dost belie him, Percy, thou dost belie him;
A carbuncle entire, as big as thou art,
They shall be famed; for there the sun shall greet them,
Her husband, knave: wouldst thou betray me?
And I, the hapless male to one sweet bird,
An you give him for my sake but one loving kiss.
I thought I should have seen some Hercules,
He that would vouch it in any place but here.
Help, help! Call help.
To take their rooms, ere I can place myself:
And, to sink in it, should you burden love;
Nay, that a' did not.
Exit
Ay, and worn in the cap of a tooth-drawer.
Nay, let's follow him.
good a man as yourself, both in the disciplines of
You know your father's temper: at this time
His father and I were soldiers together; to whom I
in love. If thou wilt, go with me to the alehouse;
I will then give it you soundly.
What is the news i' the court?
Thou hast most kindly hit it.
You mistake; I mean the pound,--a pinfold.
Not Cassio kill'd! then murder's out of tune,
So shall she leave her blessedness to one,
O, my all-worthy lord!
Have no delight to pass away the time,
Exit POLONIUS
Than to die well and not my master's debtor.
Have lipp'd, and trembled kissing.
What shall I say? to safeguard thine own life,
Digest this letter of the cardinal's?
I was your mother much upon these years
But in this kind to come, in braving arms,
him accordingly, as you value your trust--
That longer you desire the court; as well
Bring me the fairest creature northward born,
shall be a mock for his truth, and what truth can
Her blush is guiltiness, not modesty.
I hope we have reformed that indifferently with us,
To what end did I bid thee hie thee home?
What sayest thou, Biondello?
Thus play I in one person many people,
And hang a calf's-skin on those recreant limbs.
That nothing can allay, nothing but blood,
Mark how the blood of Caesar follow'd it,
And pay the sum that may deliver me.
A pretty moral;
Knows at what time to promise, when to pay.
curate and your sweet self are good at such
Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you.
Nor I neither by this heavenly light;
And when thou hast given it the emperor,
From jealousy!
Nothing but bonfires: the oracle is fulfilled; the
To me, sir? why, you gave no gold to me.
ignorance were as dark as hell; and I say, there
Two of thy name, both Dukes of Somerset,
'Save your honour!
Receive it from me, then: war and confusion
Ha!
Liker in feature to his father Geffrey
If you will not undo what you have done, that is,
But being watch'd that it may still go right!
Who's that?
Confounds thy fame as whirlwinds shake fair buds,
The tempter or the tempted, who sins most?
Perish the man whose mind is backward now!
Or groan for love? or spend a minute's time
Here's a good world the while! Why who's so gross,
I must be gone and live, or stay and die.
[Advancing]             Ay, so thou dost,
Seeking for Richmond in the throat of death.
I do assure ye, very good friend: for what is
That comes in likeness of a coal-black Moor.
--a most contagious treason come to light, look
Address their dangers in. Hector is gone:
As cannons overcharged with double cracks, so they
Here's no place for you: pray, go to the door.
How sweetly you do minister to love,
That kills and pains not?
And why so, my lord?
Here is her picture: let me see; I think,
Truly, sir, and pleasure will be paid, one time or another.
Made friends of them, joining their force 'gainst Caesar;
Yet so my fancy may be satisfied,
And only that I stand for. I appeal
A woman of less place might ask by law:
No, no, no, no, no.
And Portia one, there must be something else
With anger, with sickness, or with hunger, my lord,
No stricter render of me than my all.
is a region in Guiana, all gold and bounty. I will
Will I withal endow a child of thine;
Let's fetch him off, or make remain alike.
Pray you, be gone.
And with each end of thy blue bow dost crown
As ever offer'd foul play in the state.
My very friend, hath got his mortal hurt
I am the son of Marcus Cato, ho!
This you should pity rather than despise.
you tarry here. By gar, I will cut all his two
And I was ta'en for him, and he for me,
The British powers are marching hitherward.
And will upon the instant put thee to't:
For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night.
Je pense que vous etes gentilhomme de bonne qualite.
To comfort thee, though thou art banished.
Signior Baptista, shall I lead the way?
I have no power to speak, sir.
Over my thigh, and sigh'd, and kiss'd; and then
what 'cerns it you if I wear pearl and gold? I
Not now, not now.
Now heavens forbid such scarcity of youth!
That offer service to your lordship.
[Aside to a stander by]
When it did taste the wormwood on the nipple
out of thy mouth, as wine comes out of a narrow-
Divinest creature, Astraea's daughter,
Large-handed robbers your grave masters are,
But he fell to himself again, and sweetly
I must not break my faith.
That ever swore her faith.
How angel-like he sings!
Give me thy hand
I talk but idly, and you laugh at me.
Take again
Why, we shall make him mad indeed.
Yes, my good lord;
As you are friends, scholars and soldiers,
Unless Bellario, a learned doctor,
Send her a story of thy noble acts;
Come on, mistress: here's a gentlewoman denies all
Full of sad thoughts and troubles.
You can endure the livery of a nun,
Enter another Messenger
wholesome iniquity have you that a man may deal
Was then scarce friends with him: I have heard
SCENE I. Belmont. A room in PORTIA'S house.
That no compunctious visitings of nature
So please you, for I never heard it yet;
Into the chapel. I pray you, haste in this.
how the young folks lay their heads together!
The queen is coming with a puissant host;
You laying these slight sullies on my son,
O my most sacred lady!
Even on the pith of Life. Where is he gone?
He.
An you love me, let's do't: I am dog at a catch.
Blind sight, dead life, poor mortal living ghost,
That answer might have become Apemantus.
Enter ORLANDO and ADAM
Have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre,
Before you fight the battle, ope this letter.
Hath given them heart and courage to proceed:
I'll not put
Enter CASSANDRA, raving
To be so pester'd with a popinjay,
see most bravely: I'll tell you them all by their
The guilt of conscience take thou for thy labour,
There's thy reward: be gone.
Here, purposing the Bastard to destroy,
That very hour, and in the self-same inn,
I have seen thee in her and I do adore thee:
to stay behind her. She is at the court, and no
Come I to speak in Caesar's funeral.
Immortal longings in me: now no more
Flourish. Exeunt KING RICHARD II and train
Where be our men?
It shall be done.
I am as fair now as I was erewhile.
How now, my lord!
Good my liege,
His blessed part to heaven, and slept in peace.
You knew my father well, and in him me,
By indirections find directions out:
The waters swell before a boisterous storm.
And for our eyes do hate the dire aspect
And 'tis not done. The attempt and not the deed
I smell sweet savours and I feel soft things:
His head unmellow'd, but his judgment ripe;
Thrust from the company of awful men:
The well-lost life of mine on his grace's cure
So strongly guarded.
Send fair-play orders and make compromise,
If Lewis by your assistance win the day.
As from the body of contraction plucks
Good night, and good repose.
Nor much oppress'd them with great subsidies.
Let me go and try:
Is not this buckled well?
He hath released him, Isabel, from the world:
May be the lady: thou shalt know the man
Therefore I scant this breathing courtesy.
affection; by mine honour, I will; and when I break
More than his singularity, he goes
And good even to you, sir.
Added to their familiarity,
I serve thee not.
And next his throat unto the butcher's knife.
Is all as monstrous to our human reason
This is Signior Antonio.
he's a better woodman than thou takest him for.
Yea, there thou makest me sad and makest me sin
could not discover, these shallow fools have brought
But, as it were, an after-dinner's sleep,
By all conjectures: first, Kildare's attainder,
Being create for comfort, to be used
I will entreat you, when you see my son,
The Prince of Wales, Lord John of Lancaster,
Tullus Aufidius then had made new head?
This is all:
Nay, but thou shalt stay too: I would my son
Which rather threatenest than dost promise aught,
Have done offence, I take the fault on me:
Advance our waving colours on the walls;
Make deeds ill done! Hadst not thou been by,
At least we'll die with harness on our back.
'Tis sport to maul a runner.
In his own course.
And seized upon their towns and provinces.
Is he dispatch'd?
The thrifty hire I saved under your father,
That the whole life of Athens were in this!
Hast thou drunk well?
Now, by the honour of my ancestry,
And go well satisfied to France again.
Why, 'Jack, boy! ho! boy!' and as much news as
climb in the merriness.
say ay and no to these particulars is more than to
Then in the midst a tearing groan did break
Or women's sake, by whom we men are men,
Of us too much beloved. Let us be clear'd
Be not deceived: if I have veil'd my look,
This night you shall behold him at our feast;
I robb'd his wound of it; behold it stain'd
Hath thus beguiled your daughter of herself
Choler!
report--after fourteen years' purchase.
Like humble-visaged suitors, his high will.
Whereof take you one quarter into France,
churchyard,
Hear ye, Yedward; if I tarry at home and go not,
Well, cousin. I told you a thing yesterday; think on't.
To Ireland will you lead a band of men,
'Tis so. And the tears of it are wet.
The cambric, which she made more sound
Pray, Master Barnardine, awake till you are
It will not be accepted, on my life:
Exit
Behold him.
My mistress with a monster is in love.
And draw her home with music.
Who like a good and hardy soldier fought
Of any king's in Europe. I do think
Upon what ground is his distemperature?
Fill me a bowl of wine. Give me a watch.
Do press among the popular throngs and puff
you seek us afterwards in other terms, you
Come challenge me, challenge me by these deserts,
And there cut off thy most ungracious head;
leave your gaping.
SCENE II. An ante-chamber in the palace.
Nay, then I see that Edward needs must down.
The splitting rocks cower'd in the sinking sands
How! I inform them!
He is in earnest.
Of mine own way; I know you wise, religious;
If I were Brutus now and he were Cassius,
You meet in some fresh cheek the power of fancy,
why Brutus rose against Caesar, this is my answer:
as your French crown for your taffeta punk, as Tib's
At your request a little from himself.
Is all the grace I beg.
too: we shall speak of you there.
And follow Marcius.
To stay for me at church 'twixt twelve and one,
Or thou, the greatest soldier of the world,
Exit EDGAR
However he puts on this tardy form.
Re-enter PANDARUS
When grief, and blood ill-temper'd, vexeth him?
Enter Clown
That kings should let their ears hear their
The princely Charles of France, thy countryman.
I do live at my house, and my house doth stand by
The by-gone day proclaim'd: say this to him,
For being yare about him.
This last old man,
Before a friend of this description
Rumble thy bellyful! Spit, fire! spout, rain!
I have inform'd his highness so at large
was never lost in my house before.
No truly sir; not a penny.
Uncertain life, and sure death.
That skins the vice o' the top. Go to your bosom;
All merciless proceeding by these French
And by the bright track of his fiery car,
Do shameful execution on herself.
To pass assurance of a dower in marriage
A sister I bequeath you, whom no brother
Being of those virtues vacant. I fear nothing
Scant not my cups; and make as much of me
Be you quiet, monster. Mistress line,
Though in Rome litter'd--not Romans--as they are not,
Can the son's eye behold his father bleed?
I could be knighted.
But, master, if I had been the sexton, I would have
I do betray myself with blushing. Maid!
The gods forbid else!
Your honour is most welcome.
ANTIPHOLUS
And I a maid at your window,
Excellent! I smell a device.
Lend me thy handkerchief.
Then you must say 'I take thee, Rosalind, for wife.'
Lady!
No, no, no, your son was misled with a snipt-taffeta
Ajax;' and he replies 'Thanks, Agamemnon.' What think
Or thee? or thee? or any of your faction?
Was never widow had so dear a loss!
not, use him for the present and dismiss him. He
Novi hominem tanquam te: his humour is lofty, his
common herd was glad he refused the crown, he
That hurts by easing. But, to the quick o' the ulcer:--
The leisure of their answer; gave me cold looks:
I was, an't like your majesty.
And seal the bargain with a holy kiss.
carriage, for he carried the town-gates on his back
We will with some strange pastime solace them,
Why stay we to be baited
At first I did adore a twinkling star,
understand so much, and therefore comes to speak
Nay, but hear me.
So young, and so untender?
To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
A heavy sight!
That warranteth by law to be thy privilege.
Which woo'd the slimy bottom of the deep,
What, man?
Lascivious metres, to whose venom sound
My lord.
Farewell, farewell.
That hour destroy us?
Or if thou hast not sat as I do now,
Pardon, dear madam: 'tis a passing shame
Thou pretty, because little.
For so I know he is, they know he is,
How now, Marina! why do you keep alone?
Woe, woe for England! not a whit for me;
You see, is kill'd in him: and yet it is danger
And I must know it, else he loves me not.
The earldom of Hereford and the moveables
Sir Richard Ketly, Davy Gam, esquire:
Fathers that, like so many Alexanders,
And his contract by deputy in France;
What manner of man are you? My lord, I look'd
several tunes faster than you'll tell money; he
Will ye, like soldiers, come and fight it out?
And buy men's voices to commend our deeds:
He hath been out nine years, and away he shall
To see you are become so penitent.
garments were come. She said upon a time--the
What doth move you to claim your brother's land?
He hath a kind of honour sets him off,
SCENE II. France. A royal palace.
Why, so I do, the noblest that I have:
I prithee, Diomed, visit me no more.
Thy hand is but a finger to my fist,
not bite another, and wherefore should one bastard?
Is he well shipp'd?
I see it in
Whence comest thou? what wouldst thou? thy name?
O, thou didst prophesy the time would come
To see great Hercules whipping a gig,
I could not speak with Dromio since at first
I had as lief not be as live to be
And, certes, the text most infallibly concludes it.
That the graves all gaping wide,
These eyes, these brows, were moulded out of his:
Nay, then I'll run.
What further woe conspires against mine age?
While she was in her dull and sleeping hour,
And in my house you shall be friendly lodged:
So all men do, from hence to the palace gate
No; for he could not so resign his crown
And shall these hands, so lately purged of blood,
Bearing a state of mighty moment in't
Bring me my boots: I will unto the king.
The king my father did in Tarsus leave me;
shall anon over-read it at your pleasure; where you
Of fighting men they have full three score thousand.
Speak 'gainst so great a number? How, in one house,
Against us brats, with no less confidence
no wool, the cat no perfume. Ha! here's three on
Like a poor bark, of sails and tackling reft,
Tut, this was nothing but an argument
And if Jove stray, who dares say Jove doth ill?
To hover on the dreadful shore of Styx?
Enchased with all the honours of the world?
The French king's daughter with yourself to speak--
I tell you, younglings, not Enceladus,
neither do I labour for a greater esteem than may in
It shall be so; he shall to Brittany.
We must bear all. O hard condition,
Before the game is afoot, thou still let'st slip.
Was ever match clapp'd up so suddenly?
Should sure to the slaughter,
Enter Ghost
Nay Warwick, single out some other chase;
Who's that, I pray thee?
Into the main of waters. Music! hark!
Where I have took them up.
Well, mildly be it then. Mildly!
precious diamond that is, nor you the lady.
In a litigious peace. You, and your lady,
But new struck nine.
That's all the fault: I spoke with her but once
Nor ope her lap to saint-seducing gold:
The lips of those that breathe them in the air.
The gum down-roping from their pale-dead eyes
We'll answer.
Hath a sharp edge: it's long and, 't may be said,
Let him be whipt and hang'd.
For a few words.
And say there is much kindness in the Jew.
This is the latest parle we will admit;
For him thou labour'st by thy flight to shun
Marcius,
Enter SUFFOLK
At careful nursing. Go thy ways, good mariner:
Suffolk, the new-made duke that rules the roast,
Yet cease your ire, you angry stars of heaven!
So farewell, noble Lucius.
Nay, be not angry, sir.
Repose in fame; none basely slain in brawls:
Consent to swear.
Inferring arguments of mighty force.
Call him a slanderous coward and a villain:
All on a heap, like to a slaughter'd lamb,
But when he took a beggar to his bed,
How! the duke in council!
the statutes, he may stay him: marry, not without
I'll heat his blood with Greekish wine to-night,
All three of them are desperate: their great guilt,
The unworthiest shows as fairly in the mask.
But for a kingdom any oath may be broken:
And William de la Pole, first duke of Suffolk.
Where ill men were; and was the best of all
And when you loved, you were my other husband.
It speaks against her with the other proofs.
So I say.
get the learned writer to set down our
great buildings.
Exit
And, touching hers, make blessed my rude hand.
Is not the Lady Constance in this troop?
Away, unpeaceable dog, or I'll spurn thee hence!
And Hector laughed.
Good friar, I know you do, and have found it.
it?
I'll wait upon your lordship.
Speak, cousin; or, if you cannot, stop his mouth
Thou almost makest me waver in my faith
Even in their promise, as it is a-making,
To know your answer, whether you'll admit him.
If any spark of life be yet remaining,
recovery of this drum, being not ignorant of the
I was a pack-horse in his great affairs;
What counsel, lords? Edward from Belgia,
Which of you have done this?
Keep word, Lysander: we must starve our sight
Or all of it, with our displeasure pieced,
Whirring me from my friends.
God-a-mercy, that thou wilt believe me; but a
have his wit this year.
public shame as the rest of the court can possibly devise.'
Neighbour'd by fruit of baser quality:
For others' uses. Yet, 'tis the plague of great ones;
Thine honour from thy suffering; that not know'st
But is not this braver? Let them kiss one another,
Enter ARTEMIDORUS, reading a paper
The fool slides o'er the ice that you should break.
What earthy name to interrogatories
The which the gods protect thee from!--may
Of their friends' gift?
But still the house-affairs would draw her thence:
amity shall prove the immediate author of their
Throws up a skull
But say, I prithee, is he coming home? It seems he
that made the wings she flew withal.
And the queen's sons and brothers haught and proud:
I did not think
Who did hoot him out o' the city.
So other foes may set upon our backs.
There is no measure in the occasion that breeds;
that, commend me to the court where your lady is,
The way it takes, cracking ten thousand curbs
Before the wound do grow uncurable;
And so suppose am I; for in his grave
You English princes all, I do salute you.
rich by the fairies. This is some changeling:
And both return back to their chairs again:
In time I may believe, yet I mistrust.
Can he be angry? I have seen the cannon,
As far as doth the Capitol exceed
Welcome him then according to his worth.
His good remembrance, sir,
purse; I could have filed keys off that hung in
This is to feel a tale, not to hear a tale.
While I was speaking, oft was fasten'd to't.
Come to me, Tyrrel, soon at after supper,
With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head
Takes off my manhood: I have belied a lady,
As from my death-bed, thy last living leave.
Was nothing less than bloody tyranny.
Buttress, nor coign of vantage, but this bird
Henry Lord Scroop of Masham, and the third,
Gorged with the dearest morsel of the earth,
There shall I rest secure from force and fraud.
Be call'd your vanquisher.
And shall become you well, to entreat your captain
of man hath not heard, the ear of man hath not
Good day to both your graces.
praise me?
to notify that her husband will be absence from his
betwixt a benefit and an injury, I never found man
mine honest neighbours shouted.
But never saw before; of whom I have
Two equal men. The queen shall be acquainted
May that ground gape and swallow me alive,
So many hours must I tend my flock;
I am my master's true-confirmed love;
A stranger to those most imperial looks
Off, pluck off:
Lady, a word: I'll bring you to your father.
Exeunt
Where are the vile beginners of this fray?
Horribly stuff'd with epithets of war;
And mar the concord with too harsh a descant:
Enter POSTHUMUS and PHILARIO
My comfort comes along. Break up the court:
In any case, the offer of the king.
Purpose return. Why hast thou gone so far,
Where is she? and how doth she? and what says
Our remedies oft in ourselves do lie,
Give me.
kindness to his horse, buttered his hay.
A journey to my loving Proteus.
The bristled lips before him: be bestrid
Call'd the brave Lord Ponton de Santrailles;
I should have found it afterwards well done;
So many years ere I shall shear the fleece:
Keeps good old York there with his men of war?
with honesty?
We love our people well; even those we love
That know not how to use ambassadors,
For your physicians have expressly charged,
When you are better temper'd to attend.
That time and place with this deceit so lawful
What Antony shall speak, I will protest
For ere the glass, that now begins to run,
Why under Mars?
And so do I.
How now, my lord! I will the king hear this piece of work?
Now we'll together; and the chance of goodness
Not your gaoler, then,
The woman's part in me! For there's no motion
I do believe it; for they pass'd by me
worn himself, and the rod he might have bestowed on
Cadwal,
One of these is true:
As I will watch the aim, or to find both
Young ravens must have food.
Now is the sun upon the highmost hill
I never loved you much; but I ha' praised ye,
And as my love is sized, my fear is so:
Takest up the princess by that forced baseness
A very fatal place it seems to me.
You have said, sir.
What shall I do?
Drink, servant-monster, when I bid thee: thy eyes
Ay, sir: the other squirrel was stolen from me by
Who are the late commissioners?
Priests pray for enemies, but princes kill.
Recounts most horrid sights seen by the watch.
I have a king here to my flatterer.
Traitor! how now!
yet, till my mother be dead: but what though? Yet I
I would you would make use of that good wisdom,
Had lived to put on this: so had you saved
imaginations of your own heart: this is jealousies.
Newly preferr'd from the king's secretary,
Good my lord!
'Twas odds, belike, when valiant Warwick fled:
See how my wretched sister sobs and weeps.
No worse a husband than the best of men;
You are welcome all.
Descended into perjury, to love me.
With your crown'd brother and these your contracted
SCENE II. The forest.
SCENE III. A room in PETRUCHIO'S house.
I little like.
Exit BIRON
And did request me to importune you
To England send him, or confine him where
Tell me of corn!
Send me your prisoners with the speediest means,
I'll lead you to some biding.
The nimble spirits in the arteries,
I believe you;
Enter Officers
Why, foolish Lucius, dost thou not perceive
Fery goot: I will make a prief of it in my note-
Do you hear?
All hurt behind; backs red, and faces pale
Am like a prophet suddenly enrapt
Who's there?
To make distinction: provide this messenger:
Thou common whore of mankind, that put'st odds
Tell out my blood.
piece of tender air; and when from a stately cedar
Go on before; I'll talk with this good fellow.
How things go from him, nor resumes no care
During this song they pinch FALSTAFF. DOCTOR CAIUS  comes one way, and steals away a boy in green;  SLENDER another way, and takes off a boy in white;  and FENTON comes and steals away ANN PAGE.  A noise of hunting is heard within. All the  Fairies run away. FALSTAFF pulls off his buck's head, and rises
man here to school. Look, where his master comes;
Unchain your spirits now with spelling charms
Nay: in that you are astray, 'twere best pound you.
I will say of it,
Justice with favour have I always done;
This ring was ever hers, you shall as easy
And make them keep their caves: since I was man,
Your visitation shall receive such thanks
Exit
For saints have hands that pilgrims' hands do touch,
So the revenge alone pursued me! Polydore,
Must have inventions to delight the taste,
Whose manners still our tardy apish nation
SCENE VII. Another part of the field.
upon the least occasion more mine eyes will tell
Enter LADY CAPULET
Than have him hold that purpose and to put it
But fearing lest my jealous aim might err
But come, I'll tell thee all my whole device
Take my prayers with you.
For bearers of this greeting to old Norway;
Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;
Flaminius, I have noted thee always wise. Here's to thee.
thou hast mettle enough in thee to kill care.
'Tis thought that Richmond is their admiral;
Ready for his friends.
A still-soliciting eye, and such a tongue
Pride went before, ambition follows him.
Call up my brother. O, would you had had her!
My love, forbear to fawn upon their frowns:
'Tis positive 'gainst all exceptions, lords,
Exit
Exeunt
But howsoe'er, no simple man that sees
quarrel on the seventh cause?
Which we in justice cannot well deny,
She-wolf of France, but worse than wolves of France,
news too: Marullus and Flavius, for pulling scarfs
Or give me ribs of steel! I shall split all
SCENE III. The English camp.
To speak, as from his mouth, what he doth know
the time use thee well: good parts in thee.
Before-time seen him thus.
And tell him where I stay: give the like notice
Whither I invite you. Look, Thaisa is recovered.
myself acquainted with you. I shall discover a
Go with me, Silvius.
advisings: to the love I have in doing good a
The herbs that have on them cold dew o' the night
Stanley did dream the boar did raze his helm;
Against the part I come with; so I'll die
Not like a woman; for I would prevent
Caesar, I shall.
Alas, why would you heap these cares on me?
To this we swore our aid. But in short space
Alas, poor shepherd! searching of thy wound,
Dispropertied their freedoms, holding them,
say, we will do no harm with our swords, and that
This morning, uncle.
at Milford-Haven: what your own love will out of
A mother's curse, on her revolting son.
Then, good my lord, teach your cousin to consent winking.
Who for Bohemia bend, to signify
But love is blind and lovers cannot see
In any honest suit: she's framed as fruitful
In every borough as we pass along;
I will baffle Sir Toby, I will wash off gross
And as for Pericles,
Therefore, sirrah,
More worth than empty vanities; yet prayers and wishes
Or else be impudently negative,
At requiring;
Of an ensuing evil, if it fall,
Those enemies of Timon's and mine own
I saw't not, thought it not, it harm'd not me:
To one not sociable: I am not very sick,
To the gold
I knew her by this jewel on her sleeve.
die a dry death.
He could so quickly cut the Ionian sea,
Yet that thy brazen gates of heaven may ope,
Quarrel sir! no, sir.
Let me, if not by birth, have lands by wit:
suspect thee, when peradventure thou wert accused by
That would I, were I of all kingdoms king.
In such a rustling time? Who leads his power?
force of honesty can translate beauty into his
It shall be possible. Swear by this sword
and water-rats, water-thieves and land-thieves, I
alone with him: if I do not gull him into a
Did urge me in his act: I did inquire it;
Within the infant rind of this small flower
What courage, sir? God save you!
The self-same way with more advised watch,
troubled with a rheum;
Empress I am, but yonder sits the emperor.
Are nobly undergone and most poor matters
Enter QUEEN ELIZABETH and RIVERS
In brief, sir, study what you most affect.
So was I when your highness took his dukedom;
Manly as Hector, but more dangerous;
I know they are stuff'd with protestations
Yet, Warwick, in despite of all mischance,
I doubt he will be dead or ere I come.
the thanksgiving before meat, do relish the petition
No, it is 'lapis:' I pray you, remember in your prain.
Cries 'come' to him that instantly must die.
Come, we'll to sleep. My strange and self-abuse
If he appeal the duke on ancient malice;
I hope, sir, your good worship will be my bail.
That Caesar and his senate must redress?
a very filthy rogue.
lie, do, and try whether I am not now a gentleman born.
My hearty friends,
To make theirs ours and ours none but our own:
Became a bull, and bellow'd; the green Neptune
Now do your duty throughly, I advise you:
He dreamt to-night the boar had razed his helm:
And I serve the fairy queen,
Room, ho! Tell Antony, Brutus is ta'en.
present at his examination: if he do not, for the
Suffolk's imperial tongue is stern and rough,
That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
Nay, gentlemen, prepare not to be gone;
A fool, a fool! I met a fool i' the forest,
Adder, Spider,
But have I not cause to weep?
Exit Hostess
Exit
homely foolery already. I know, sir, we weary you.
Denmark, and those that would make mows at him while
More than your enemies.
Whiles we, God's wrathful agent, do correct
10. Certain Ladies or Countesses, with plain
I must be present at your conference.
Enter KING LEAR and Fool
Claribel.
That the mad Brutus ended: he alone
you're ready:
be done; damns himself to do and dares better be
When yet you were in place and in account
And cried 'Inestimable!'--why do you now
To men that understand you, words and weakness.
There to give up their power. If you can, pace your wisdom
Can snore upon the flint, when resty sloth
This very day,
Do then: but I'll not hear.
And be her sense but as a monument,
word in your ear: sir, I say to you, it is thought
Send succors, lords, and stop the rage betime,
Mislike me not for my complexion,
thou couldst, thou wouldst find me such a plain king
hangs a tale.
What is her name?
The solemn temples, the great globe itself,
They can be meek that have no other cause.
direct answer. To-morrow morning are to die Claudio
But Macbeth is.
That long to move.
On the complaint o' the tenants: take good heed
Not without fair reward.
Be not so rash; take ransom, let him live.
approbation.
O, if thine eye be not a flatterer,
But I have, sir, a son by order of law, some year
Now, good angels
Conceive when after many moody thoughts
Do cream and mantle like a standing pond,
But a harsh hearing when women are froward.
Dogs howl'd, and hideous tempest shook down trees;
I'll graff it with you, and then I shall graff it
To tell you what I was, since my conversion
My brain more busy than the labouring spider
That in his nonage council under him,
Whom Troy hath still denied: but this Antenor,
Whereby I see that Time's the king of men,
Well, jest on, brothers: I can tell you both
That's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.
There's not a man I meet but doth salute me
But I, a maid, die maiden-widowed.
I am the caitiff that do hold him to't;
Who should be trusted, when one's own right hand
Aside
their wills: fill thy purse with money:--the food
The times that brought them in; so shall I do
Follow me not;
Your sweet dependency; and you shall find
For half thy wealth, it is Antonio's;
Harry of Hereford, Lancaster and Derby,
Agree these deeds with that proud brag of thine,
Or rather a disease that's in my flesh,
Hero itself can blot out Hero's virtue.
If I court moe women, you'll couch with moe men!
We freely cope your courteous pains withal.
To seek to put me down and reign thyself.
But what says she to me? be brief, my good
And is not this an honourable spoil?
more, a hundred of them.
If I dare eat, or drink, or breathe, or live,
the Count Claudio alone: tell them that you know
him.
apiece of uncurrent gold, be not cracked within the
What is become of Marcius?
To give my poor host freedom.
I am most unhappy in the loss of it.
Let them approach.
O, but, sir,
as pale as any clout in the versal world. Doth not
And himself. Not I,
But I shall do thee mischief in the wood.
Did ever keep your counsels, never wrong'd you;
Enter MARGARET JOURDAIN, HUME, SOUTHWELL, and BOLINGBROKE
More evident than this; for this was stolen.
As a friend.
After the general, I beseech you next
One of your lordship's pages.
And, hark! they shout for joy.
Men for their sons, wives for their husbands,
Ten thousand men that fishes gnaw'd upon;
And I will call him to so strict account,
I will not re-salute the streets of Rome,
Re-enter Bawd
I have forgot my part, and I am out,
Are often welcomest when they are gone.
Nor you, Lorenzo; Jessica, nor you.
Which shows me mine changed too; for I must be
that now men grow hard-hearted and will lend nothing
wag, shall there be gallows standing in England when
Since I first call'd my brother's father dad.
Sir,
O for a Muse of fire, that would ascend
on with my speech in your praise, and then show you
I know where it is situate.
Enter PUCK
And I do love thee: therefore, go with me;
I pray you, go with me.
I think he will eat all he kills.
love not Marcius.
Ay, sir, I thank God.
Ugly and slanderous to thy mother's womb,
More active-valiant or more valiant-young,
As I had made my meal, and parted
to utter it.
Stand from the hearse, stand from the body.
I had rather give his carcass to my hounds.
Swoons
Enter DOUGLAS
Most humbly therefore bending to your state,
Even so thy breast encloseth my poor heart;
Come, come, our empress, with her sacred wit
The mouth of passage shall we fling wide ope,
And have you mercy too! I never did
My arms such eel-skins stuff'd, my face so thin
Whose was it?
sayest thou to this tune, matter and method? Is't
Longer than I prove loyal to your grace
the instruments,
Taffeta phrases, silken terms precise,
And yet we mourn: her monument
The natural fool of fortune. Use me well;
For I am rough and woo not like a babe.
DON
For women's fear and love holds quantity;
Permitted by our dastard nobles, who
I dare damnation. To this point I stand,
He lurch'd all swords of the garland. For this last,
Ay, I do so.
But to torment you with my bitter tongue!
I have persuaded him the youth's a devil.
We will die all three:
another man is a fool when he dedicates his
Became him like the leaving it; he died
Ay, my lord.
She hath been colted by him.
Her father and her country and her friends,
Companion, hence!
She died, my lord, but whiles her slander lived.
Go thou away:
Their virtues else--be they as pure as grace,
Should now eat up her own!
I was not angry since I came to France
Tarry, rash wanton: am not I thy lord?
Exit Servant
Do breed love's settled passions in my heart:
Yes, indeed, does he.
For I do know Fluellen valiant
Or do but lift this arm, the best of you
Why, lo you now, I have spoke to the purpose twice:
O, for a stone-bow, to hit him in the eye!
Follow me close; I'll bring you to't. Adieu.
He did bespeak a chain for me, but had it not.
Alas the day! good heart, that was not her fault:
He, sir! a tapster, sir; parcel-bawd; one that
Now the hungry lion roars,
To rank our chosen truth with such a show
And yet, in substance and authority,
In such a gorgeous palace!
No.
On my black coffin let there be strown;
Will take away your life.
spavins, rayed with yellows, past cure of the fives,
Thither, gentle mariner.
Villains, for shame you could not beg for grace.
Go, do our bidding; hence!
My nose that bled, or foil'd some debile wretch.--
SCENE III. A highway between Rome and Antium.
My lord and husband!
But might you do't, and do the world no wrong,
Whose bookish rule hath pull'd fair England down.
I here could pluck his highness' frown upon you
If the event o' the journey
What is she but a foul contending rebel
And I say the earth was not of my mind,
I would he knew that I had saved his brother!
Let them want nothing that my house affords.
know'st not me.
If you first sinn'd with us and that with us
Were, on the quarry of these murder'd deer,
As many farewells as be stars in heaven,
I would have been much more a fresher man,
Then make a ring about the corpse of Caesar,
Whom I myself embrace, to set him free.
In every mess have folly and the feeders
Such griefs as you yourself do lay upon yourself.
will think of thee at court.
O prince, I conjure thee, as thou believest
She is i' the rear our birth.
As fair and as good--a kind of hand-in-hand
Let no fair be kept in mind
I am not treacherous.
'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile;
And to repair my honour lost for him,
Exit KATHARINA
steal cream.
Hath leap'd into my seat; the thought whereof
the word l'envoy for a salve?
I have one heart, one bosom and one truth,
For goodness dare not cheque thee: wear thou
What concern they?
I do not like this news.
'Tis Caesar that you mean; is it not, Cassius?
That trudge betwixt the king and Mistress Shore.
But in the balance of great Bolingbroke,
Were it all yours to give it in a breath,
One word more, good lady.
Faith, look you, one cannot tell how to say that:
Come as the gods foresay it: howsoe'er,
The whole realm, by your teaching and your chaplains,
Enter FRIAR PETER
So be there 'twixt your kingdoms such a spousal,
Where shall we meet i' the morning?
He hath paid you all he promised you; may be, he has
his form, as you are like to find him in the proof
Answer mere nature; bid them flatter thee;
No, though he thought his accusation true.
About the marriage of the Lady Bona.
That it will glimmer through a blind man's eye.
porpus how he bounced and tumbled? they say
A banish'd traitor.
schooled and yet learned, full of noble device, of
And they that are most galled with my folly,
Give me another horse: bind up my wounds.
Why does my blood thus muster to my heart,
But, seeing thou fall'st on me so luckily,
But edifies another with her deeds.
Go, Gratiano, run and overtake him;
Throwing down SOMERSET's head
Enter another Messenger
Of lineaments, of manners and of spirit;
minstrels; draw, to pleasure us.
'And some have greatness thrust upon them.'
Hereafter more. Bring me into your city,
'What is your parentage?'
Taurus! That's sides and heart.
To tremble under Titus' threatening looks.
Receive thy lance; and God defend the right!
to Lord Lucullus you: I hunted with his honour
easy as a cannon will shoot point-blank twelve
Let us not wrangle: bid them move away;
That eye my daughter lent her: 'tis most true.
You are a merry gamester,
Into the hearts of such as have not thrived
That all your acts are queens.
The ringleader and head of all this rout,
Go find him out,
No word like 'pardon' for kings' mouths so meet.
Look by and by to have thy sons with thee.
'Twere to consider too curiously, to consider so.
Love, friendship, charity, are subjects all
Enter Soothsayer
Biron is like an envious sneaping frost,
Pray you, poor gentleman, take up some other
Though they did change me to the meanest bird
For, by the sacred radiance of the sun,
milliner can so fit his customers with gloves: he
Thrust these reproachful speeches down his throat
To see the enclosed lights, now canopied
Visit both prince and people: therefore, I prithee,
Peter, take my fan, and go before and apace.
In Parthia did I take thee prisoner;
God save you, sir!
Had been more merciful. Come on, poor babe:
Into this chiefest thicket of the park.
[Kneeling]               Your blessing, sir.
Princes and noble lords,
so God keep your worship!
My wife! my wife! what wife? I have no wife.
Which seem'd too much enkindled, and withal
Thou hast thy mistress still, to boot, my son,
So please you, we will stand and watch your pleasure.
Leonine, take her by the arm, walk with her.
And part in just proportion our small strength.
Nestor!
Exeunt GOWER and FLUELLEN
Execute all things; for no kind of traffic
My reasonable part produces reason
And ring these fingers with thy household worms
Yourself shall feast with us before you go
love perhaps a hackney. But have you forgot your love?
Exit
An hundred marks! By this light, I'll ha' more.
How will he triumph, leap and laugh at it!
And, if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
Ergo, Master Launcelot. Talk not of Master
Have we march'd on without impediment;
And that you'll say, ere half an hour pass.
In your bad strokes, Brutus, you give good words:
Enter to them another Messenger
From these our Henry lineally descends.
For I have loaden me with many spoils,
Come, ho! and wake Diana with a hymn!
By my soul,
Did I say 'better'?
let me have a child at fifty, to whom Herod of Jewry
Thy wife Paulina more.' And so, with shrieks
Exit
A year's age on me.
A lady, sir, though it was said she much resembled
company to Venice, that swear he cannot choose but break.
thy husband were dead: I'll speak it before the
[Kneeling]  O my good master!
Do you call, sir?
controversy: there was, for a while, no money bid
Ay, my lord.
been better you had not kissed your three fingers so
he's a cat to me.
We shall o'erturn it topsy-turvy down.
He smiled me in the face, raught me his hand,
monument of the victory will I bear;
Long ere she did appear; the trees by the way
Forget not, in your speed, Antonius,
O Caesar, read mine first; for mine's a suit
He came in thunder; his celestial breath
O, were mine eyeballs into bullets turn'd,
Welcome, my gracious lord; welcome, dread queen;
From thence to England; where I hope ere long
That their designment halts: a noble ship of Venice
No hat upon his head; his stockings foul'd,
and our wives' heels.
DON
I had as lief have my mistress a jade.
nearest; buried a wife, mourned for her; writ to my
great reckoning in a little room. Truly, I would
You say, that you'll have Phebe, if she will?
And that be heir to his unhappiness!
The smallest twine may lead me.
Very well:
And there I left him tranced.
Of this so noble and so fair assembly
Come, there's no more tribute to be paid: our
'Tis he that sent us hither now to slaughter thee.
Is not their climate foggy, raw and dull,
What art thou? and how comest thou hither,
All time of pause, rudely beguiles our lips
worse payment.
In hand and hope of action: but we do learn
Be they of much import?
Down from the waist they are Centaurs,
When Caesar lived, he durst not thus have moved me.
What, and from Troilus too?
stocks, i' the common stocks, for a witch.
Or else you would not have bestow'd the heir
My thoughts are whirled like a potter's wheel;
Change shapes with Proteus for advantages,
And every man hence to his idle bed;
Peace, master marquess, you are malapert:
Let her know't.
I have no more to say, But bid Bianca farewell for
Came to my house and took away my ring--
Are wreck'd three nights ago on Goodwin Sands.
Derive this; come.
What is't, knave?
And, noble signior,
When that I was and a little tiny boy,
Hung on our driving boat, I saw your brother,
Out of this fell devouring receptacle,
Your fortunes are alike.
Now must the world point at poor Katharina,
Who all this while hath revell'd in the night
Pays dear for my offences.
What is the cause of thunder?
bloody succeeding. My master!
How now, what news with you?
O, forgive me my sins!
Forward by nature, enemy to peace;
You find not the apostraphas, and so miss the
Nor tell the world Antiochus doth sin
Do you hear, master porter?
Paysans, pauvres gens de France;
May haply purchase him a box o' th' ear;
when it shall please my country to need my death.
Nay, be brief
he hath the gift of a coward to allay the gust he
To bear the extremity of dire mishap!
Delivering o'er to executors pale
And with their helps only defend ourselves;
If quiet life be best; sweeter to you
That, sure, they've worn out Christendom.
If I lose them, thus find I by their loss
It is impossible you should see this,
Many a groaning throe. Thus hulling in
And, in the doing of the deed of kind,
Green indeed is the colour of lovers; but to have a
You are welcome: take your place.
That she may boast she hath beheld the man
Exit
Cannot stand under them: if you omit
Yet still she is the moon, and I the man.
Who for this seven years hath esteem'd him
I do, truly; for thou swearest to me thou art
I here confess myself the king of Tyre;
At Ravenspurgh.
night to catch my horse, if I did not think thou
O'er your content these strong necessities;
hear my lord speak: pray ye, go; there's my key:
Bardolph, get thee before to Coventry; fill me a
In the cradle where it lies.
I love him not nor hate him not; and yet
The amity that wisdom knits not, folly may easily
Shall never tremble: or be alive again,
Thy tongue against thy tongue. O, let thy vow
Demetrius and Egeus, go along:
Have batter'd me like roaring cannon-shot,
I would be all, against the worst may happen.
Exeunt
Alarums to the battle. Enter WARWICK
What wills Lord Talbot pleaseth Burgundy.
NYM and PISTOL draw
Thou stool for a witch!
Whose envious gulf did swallow up his life.
Come, sisters, cheer we up his sprites,
We will read it, I swear.
What is it then to me, if impious war,
And what have I to give you back, whose worth
What early tongue so sweet saluteth me?
Dear queen, that ended when I but began,
Came here to make us merry! and thou hast
And Hippolyta.
Tush, Gremio, though it pass your patience and mine
will relent;
any thing which professed to make him rejoice: a
I would be friends with you and have your love,
Would own a name too dear. O, that the gods
Sir John, there's one Master Brook below would fain
According to that state you shall be used.
They place before his hand that made the engine,
Enter SILVIUS and PHEBE
O misery!
No exorciser harm thee!
Exeunt
Yet thus far, Griffith, give me leave to speak him,
I mean, she is brought a-bed.
And, to his shape, were heir to all this land,
These sorrowful drops upon thy blood-stain'd face,
Be thus to them.
Heaven grant us its peace, but not the King of
This is Ercles' vein, a tyrant's vein; a lover is
Ran on the green-sward: nothing she does or seems
kernel out of a pomegranate; you are a vagabond and
Might stand peerless by this slaughter.
An't please your grace, here my commission stays,
Doubt truth to be a liar;
I do believe it
To have his princely paws pared all away:
Sir,
And makes my labours pleasures: O, she is
My Lord Bassanio upon more advice
Ay, as an ostler, that for the poorest piece
Valiant and virtuous, full of haughty courage,
Away! I have nothing to do with thee.
Lord Talbot of Goodrig and Urchinfield,
lamely in the verse.
Or useful serving-man and instrument,
Exasperates, makes mad her sister Goneril;
They make in Italy; the borders maritime
Lay not thy hands on me; forbear, I say;
Whose worth, if praises may go back again,
prove an ass.
Re-enter TITUS LARTIUS
Pope Innocent, I do demand of thee.
With less respect than we do minister
The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
Hail!
As ending anthem of my endless dolour.
While these visions did appear.
will tell you every thing, right as it fell out.
till he find it stopping a bung-hole?
To Caesar I will speak what you shall please,
Thy child shall live, and I will see it nourish'd.
yards about; but I am now about no waste; I am about
Of benefit proceeding from our king
known by the fruit, as the fruit by the tree, then,
Pray to the gods to intermit the plague
Mine arms about that body, where against
But if they will not, throw away that spirit,
THE ORDER OF THE CORONATION
Together with the seal o' the senate, what
And none of them been worn; and, for a name,
Forsooth, an inventory, thus importing;
Ay, and Wall too.
care for her frowning; now thou art an O without a
back, will I ravish her: first kill him, and in her
By medicine life may be prolong'd, yet death
As he in penance wander'd through the forest;
A brace of draymen bid God speed him well
Nor the all-dreaded thunder-stone;
Most of the rest slaughter'd or took likewise.
Who, on my soul, hath wilfully betray'd
Whither wilt thou go? Take good Cominius
Show'd mastership in floating; fortune's blows,
How happy then were my ensuing death!
What need a man care for a stock with a wench, when
Into a manly stride, and speak of frays
O dearest soul! your cause doth strike my heart
As doth the fury of two desperate men
Exit
I'll overtake you. Speak.
eruptions and sudden breaking out of mirth, as it
Make yourselves scabs?
To my determined time thou gavest new date.
That I did.
The fit is strongest; evils that take leave,
It rejoices me, that I hope I shall see him ere I
Then at my lodging, an it like you:
Did you go to 't so young? Were you a gamester at
And there is such confusion in my powers,
Sir Paris, I will make a desperate tender
This must be answer'd either here or hence.
Lead me on.
draw, you whoreson cullionly barber-monger, draw.
That is, a fair young maid that yet wants baptism,
Tell me, Andronicus, doth this motion please thee?
In measure rein thy joy; scant this excess.
We may live, son, to shed many more.
Had not you come upon your cue, my lord
She's a gallant lady.
I'll know his humour, when he knows his time:
That like a father you will deal with him
They of those marches, gracious sovereign,
They smack of honour both. Go get him surgeons.
Doth ill deserve by doing well; what's worse,
Then sigh not so, but let them go,
But what is your affair in Elsinore?
Sent from a sort of tinkers to the king.
So foul a sky clears not without a storm:
Exit
To-day shalt thou behold a subject die
Upon a tawny front: his captain's heart,
Alcibiades is banished: hear you of it?
Fair Margaret knows
have them this morning examined before your worship.
In the remembrance of a weeping queen.
That I regard it not.
Let him approach: call in my gentlewoman.
Well, I'll set you forth.
his soldiership I know not; except, in that country
What's here?
And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
you and dote upon the exchange.
Had I more name for badness.
Sly frantic wretch, that holp'st to make me great,
I flamed amazement: sometime I'ld divide,
At a word, I am not.
Up with my tent there! Valiant gentlemen,
I am so sorry for my trespass made
Have you climb'd up to walls and battlements,
I am loath to beat thee.
Come hither, you that would be combatants:
Against Aumerle we will enforce his trial.
You may not, my lord, despise her gentle suit.
Men give like gods; but when they weep and kneel,
Our sister's man is certainly miscarried.
you not heard speak of Mariana, the sister of
How is't with you?
For a reply, at least if you make a care
Business, my lord! I think most understand
Do not you love me?
Exit LUCIUS
To her he hates? and wherefore doth Lysander
Rinaldo, you did never lack advice so much,
sport will be, when they hold one an opinion of
Enter COSTARD
But what art thou, whose heavy looks foretell
And Bolingbroke my sorrow's dismal heir:
As is the razor's edge invisible,
Thy company, which erst was irksome to me,
Let me come to her.
Hence, villain! never more come in my sight.
DON
ANTIPHOLUS
Your fears are worse.
When you have done, we look to hear from you.
That shall I do, my liege. Stay, Salisbury,
Did violate so itself.
That done, I will be walking on the works;
Till he had done his sacrifice,
During the wars of York and Lancaster
And those eyes, the break of day,
Reigns in my blood and will remember'd be.
your turns;
during my life. I tell thee, Ned, thou hast lost
Obedience fail in children! slaves and fools,
And doubt you not, right noble princes both,
Entreat her not the worse in that I pray
I knew 'twas I; for many do call me fool.
You do not?
It is his highness' pleasure that the queen
Can send his brother: and, but infirmity
Than to be used as you use your dog?
Under the colour of his usual game,
Achilles bids you welcome.
Captives, to be advanced to this height?
But now he's gone, and my idolatrous fancy
And make him with our pikes and partisans
His hair uprear'd, his nostrils stretched with struggling;
You sheep, and I pasture: shall that finish the jest?
For, good King Henry, thy decay I fear.
My master preaches patience to him and the while
Good morrow, noble sir.
To the disposing of the cardinal:
And squarest thy life according. Thou'rt condemn'd:
When every grief is entertain'd that's offer'd,
Yet shall you have all kindness at my hand
Strange dream, that gives a dead man leave
Both wind and tide stays for this gentleman,
nothing; and that that I did, I was set on to do't
In at his window; set this up with wax
into which they vanished. Whiles I stood rapt in
The worth that learned charity aye wears:
their christen names, as Tom, Dick, and Francis.
Many a nobleman lies stark and stiff
That in such haste I sent to seek his master!
Go cheerfully together and digest.
One.
In Egypt with his joy; but between both:
And if it sort not well, you may conceal her,
Speak what we feel, not what we ought to say.
Ay, Biddy, come with me. What, man! 'tis not for
Father'd he is, and yet he's fatherless.
Thy tempest-tossed body. How now, wife!
Whose edge hath power to cut, whose will still wills
This courtesy, forbid thee, shall the duke
King, father, royal Dane: O, answer me!
Is it concluded that he shall be protector?
Come, Desdemona: 'tis the soldiers' life
My lords, you are appointed for that office;
But here she comes; and now, Petruchio, speak.
Or never trust to what my tongue can do
Then were it certain you were not so bad
The king hath of you.
Thou art the cap of all the fools alive.
Be moderate, be moderate.
As badness would desire.
Mark the high noises; and thyself bewray,
Thy adversary's wife doth pray for thee.
Or dare to bring thy force so near the court.
You have misled a prince, a royal king,
Mine eye hath well examined his parts
Drums and trumpets sounded. Enter MARTIUS and  MUTIUS; After them, two Men bearing a coffin  covered with black; then LUCIUS and QUINTUS. After  them, TITUS ANDRONICUS; and then TAMORA, with  ALARBUS, DEMETRIUS, CHIRON, AARON, and other Goths,  prisoners; Soldiers and people following. The Bearers set down the coffin, and TITUS speaks
To sell a bargain well is as cunning as fast and loose:
Methinks the ground is even.
None in the world: you did mistake him, sure.
Worthy tribunes,
Exit
My lord, will you be true?
Let silence be commanded.
He that dies pays all debts: I defy thee. Mercy upon us!
Who, as I hear, mean to solicit him
of lying. He hath wronged me in some humours: I
caparisoned like a man, I have a doublet and hose in
Alas, you know, 'tis far from hence to France;
Resolve my doubt. You twain, of all the rest,
Cannot your Grace win her to fancy him?
Exit
ear can endure to hear. Thou hast appointed
And his great love, sharp as his spur, hath holp him
holiday foolery: if we walk not in the trodden
Somerset, we'll see thee sent away.
My tender youth was never yet attaint
As much as may be yielded to a man:
The king is kind; and well we know the king
You all did see that on the Lupercal
These happy masks that kiss fair ladies' brows
Being naked, sick, nor fane nor Capitol,
a finer end and went away an it had been any
And hark ye, sirs; because she is a maid,
To break into this dangerous argument,--
He should or he should not; for he made me mad
I stood not in the smile of heaven; who had
Kneels
Know you these two?
daughter: yet he knew me not at first; he said I
And kingly dignity, we are contented
Where should he find it purer than in Blanch?
And far surmounts our labour to attain it.
Exeunt
On my life, my lord, a bubble.
To LAUNCE
My duty, madam, and most humble service.
Whoever bound him, I will loose his bonds
My liege, this was my glove; here is the fellow of
Women may fall, when there's no strength in men.
What time o' day is't, Apemantus?
What is thy name?
Exit an Attendant
Arrest thee of high treason, in the name
We have been down together in my sleep,
The loss of those three lords torments my heart:
Why, that were covetousness.
With a reed voice, and turn two mincing steps
And all their lands restored to them again
brazier by his face, for, o' my conscience, twenty
Fair as a text B in a copy-book.
I would not be cured, youth.
I beseech your honour, ask me.
Intents but merely thoughts.
poverty of her, the small acquaintance, my sudden
And with thy bloody and invisible hand
What shall you ask of me that I'll deny,
Why, thus it shall become
And pluck commiseration of his state
Without me? they cannot.
[Aside to CARDINAL]  Make up no factious
We'll along ourselves, and meet them at Philippi.
He hearkens after prophecies and dreams;
That spaniel'd me at heels, to whom I gave
Noble, courageous high, unmatchable,
sister company: the revenges we are bound to take
on a Dutchman's beard, unless you do redeem it by
To blot out me, and put his own son in.
I would not be a queen.
Exit GRUMIO
What, a hodge-pudding? a bag of flax?
And what is left, to lose it by his country,
For whilst I think I am thy married wife
I hear a tongue, shriller than all the music,
Alas, look here, my lord.
Enter a Messenger
weight to re-answer, his pettiness would bow under.
But one to dance with! By heaven, I'll steal away.
Good my lord!
Thanks, Jupiter!
'What fates await the Duke of Suffolk?'
Why hast thou slain thine only daughter thus?
Caesar's ambition shall be glanced at:
Whose was it?
if it be well used: exclaim no more against it.
When I was stamp'd; some coiner with his tools
My friend, thy husband, honest, honest Iago.
Father, to arms!
That, when we have found the king,--in which your pain
Good morrow, friends. Saint Valentine is past:
Now you see, sir, how your fooling grows old, and
Like to his island girt in with the ocean,
Much is your sorrow; mine ten times so much.
Two households, both alike in dignity,
Tune a deploring dump: the night's dead silence
And be thy wife--if any be so mad--
Bestow your counsels on me: she now begs,
So may he ever do! and ever flourish,
Did scare away, or rather did affright;
Who, in the lusty stealth of nature, take
Here is his cave.
Something browner than Judas's marry, his kisses are
SCENE III. A hall of justice.
Lay down my soul at stake: if you think other,
I will tell you.
darkness. When thou rannest up Gadshill in the
me ass: I beseech you, let it be remembered in his
Is't far you ride?
thee away, translate thy life into death, thy
What employment have we here?
Nor rain, wind, thunder, fire, are my daughters:
That had nine hours lien dead,
with you, drink with you, nor pray with you. What
To live and burn in everlasting fire,
And power, unto itself most commendable,
Since she is living, let the time run on
Be singly counterpoised. At sixteen years,
Attend the true event, and put we on
Have more than merited. All friends shall taste
I must scratch.
Shall lessen this big look.
They call him Troilus, and on him erect
Left on your right hand brings you to the place.
One score 'twixt sun and sun,
This Jacob from our holy Abram was,
Varro's Servant	I could render one.
You'ld feel more comfort: why should we, good lady,
Than I have named! The bastard Faulconbridge
Enter PANDARUS
And yet, amen, if heaven do think him me.
The name and not the thing.
He knits his brow and shows an angry eye,
That presses him from sleep.
At my depart, these were his very words:
with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death. I
hath ta'en his bow and arrows and is gone forth to
Why, tis no matter, man; if they did hear,
I'll tell you, sir, in private, if you please
And it is meet I presently set forth.
A little touch of Harry in the night.
That one day bloom'd and fruitful were the next.
his legs are legs for necessity, not for flexure.
But thou, 'gainst all proportion, didst bring in
He said mine eyes were black and my hair black:
Conceiving the dishonour of his mother,
You must not take for fire. From this time
out moonshine, find out moonshine.
most blessed condition.
The worst is worldly loss thou canst unfold.
When you have well deserved ten times as much
Then judge, great lords, if I have done amiss;
Yet such extenuation let me beg,
What is't o'clock?
Which, well thou know'st, is cross, and full of sin.
Then let the ladies tattle what they please.
And does the meanest chares. It were for me
In that good path that I would wish it go,
Good morrow.
Our forceful instigation? Our prerogative
Why, we have galls, and though we have some grace,
Though ne'er so black, say they have angels' faces.
Night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day
Affliction is enamour'd of thy parts,
Hath, with the courage which the heart did lend it,
you, deliver.
And thus my battle shall be ordered:
I would land-damn him. Be she honour-flaw'd,
I will not sleep, my lord, till I have delivered
Hath virgin'd it e'er since. You gods! I prate,
not as good a deed as drink, to turn true man and to
Here shall I die ashore--
Makes me with thy strength to communicate:
We'll speak with thee at sea: at land, thou know'st
Which humbleness may drive unto a fine.
I should have given him tears unto entreaties,
And cuckoo-buds of yellow hue
As great Sicilius' heir.
And loyal wife.
Where some, like magistrates, correct at home,
Shall, after three days' open penance done,
Which here appeareth due upon the bond.
Becomes thee well enough.
What the good-year, my lord! why are you thus out
turn witch.
Indeed my mother! or were you both our mothers,
Silence that dreadful bell: it frights the isle
Should have an army for an usher, and
That last is Biron, the merry madcap lord:
Fall to them as you find your stomach serves you;
footing than blind reason stumbling without fear: to
Upon some other pawn for fealty.
I now name to you; and with speed so pace
Their sweetest shade a grove of cypress trees!
Whereto I have invited many a guest,
tell you you have good faces. If you see this in
'Tis the right ring, by heaven: I told ye all,
And that same eye whose bend doth awe the world
But mine I am sure thou art, whoe'er thou be,
we are come off
To fan the moonbeams from his sleeping eyes:
that to him now is as luscious as locusts, shall be
Why, sir, I gave the money for the rope.
I promised to inquire carefully
Exit
That they had gather'd a wise council to them
for you. It is 'music with her silver sound,'
Go to: what quality are they of? Elbow is your
Set foot under thy table: tut, a toy!
But reverence to your calling makes me modest.
Page; to know if it were my master's fortune to
Endure the winter's cold as well as he:
I melancholy! I am not melancholy. Get you home, go.
O, had it been a stranger, not my child,
Bad is the world; and all will come to nought,
And hums, as who should say 'You'll rue the time
Or that we would, against the form of law,
Not what you have reserved, nor what acknowledged,
With golden fruit, but dangerous to be touch'd;
Which let thy wiseness fear: hold off thy hand.
SCENE VII. Belmont. A room in PORTIA'S house.
And knowing what I am, I know what she shall be.
The youngest son of Priam, a true knight,
Why, this it is to be a peevish girl,
That would not let me sleep: methought I lay
O, here he comes.
I cannot kiss, that is the humour of it; but, adieu.
Exit ALEXAS
Or to drown my clothes, and say I was stripped.
And his and mine loved darling.
How much your chain weighs to the utmost carat,
Art thou so bare and full of wretchedness,
'Tis not the first time I have constrained one to
Speak, citizens, for England; who's your king?
Away! let's go learn the truth of it.
Sirrah, come on; go along with us.
after do our work.
Shall sweet lord, be bound to you so much,
Therefore take heed how you impawn our person,
O yes, an 'twere a cloud in autumn.
My sight was ever thick; regard Titinius,
make not this cheat bring out another and the
A man that all his time
How now! what's the matter?
prophetically proud of an heroical cudgelling that he
That sought at Oxford thy dire overthrow.
Who, inward search'd, have livers white as milk;
List to your tribunes. Audience: peace, I say!
Sweet prince, you learn me noble thankfulness.
My lord, that, may be, hath endured a grief
While we were interchanging thrusts and blows,
As patches set upon a little breach
Save mine, which hath desired to see thee more;
As o'er-dyed blacks, as wind, as waters, false
We here create thee the first duke of Suffolk,
Alack, and fie for shame!
There's not a god left unsolicited.
To better vantage.
How many cowards, whose hearts are all as false
And shall continue our graces towards him.
ANTIPHOLUS
Know, Cade, we come ambassadors from the king
can do no more: nay, a horse cannot fetch, but only
the crime of it out of us.
Exit
This is the hour that Madam Silvia
1. A lively flourish of Trumpets.
So thou apprehendest it: take it for thy labour.
For who lived king, but I could dig his grave?
Come, bloody Clifford, rough Northumberland,
Being tasted, slays all senses with the heart.
Fainting, despair; despairing, yield thy breath!
by and by it will strike.
To try if that our own be ours or no.
Prithee, say on:
Most goddess-like prank'd up: but that our feasts
Thus give I mine, and thus take I thy heart.
O, yes, my lord, but very idle words:
Thou hast astonish'd me with thy high terms:
With Ate by his side come hot from hell,
The dews of heaven fall thick in blessings on her!
Well know they what they speak that speak so wisely.
Hath Cadwal now to give it motion? Hark!
Awake remembrance of these valiant dead
That book in many's eyes doth share the glory,
My hair doth stand on end to hear her curses.
No more the thirsty entrance of this soil
And as mine eye doth his effigies witness
Nor be grieved: she is of good esteem,
I am glad at soul I have no other child:
And now to Paris, in this conquering vein:
Or what his death will bring us.
So foul and fair a day I have not seen.
Against your peace. Thee of thy son, Alonso,
Here they shoot. SALISBURY and GARGRAVE fall
prouder than the cur Achilles, and will not arm
By the northern blasts twice o'er.
And spend his prodigal wits in bootless rhymes
I will not think it.
Be plainer with me; let me know my trespass
To bear the tidings of calamity.
maintained that salamander of yours with fire any
Nerissa, cheer yon stranger; bid her welcome.
Lays down his mantle
Madam, depart at pleasure; leave us here.
fencing, dancing and bear-baiting: O, had I but
What need one?
Did I, Bardolph?
To fortune's alms.
From fashion of himself. What think you on't?
And in this thought they find a kind of ease,
When every thing doth make a gleeful boast?
No believing you, indeed, sir. But did you perceive
Come, lay aside your stitchery; I must have you play
Which is the merchant here, and which the Jew?
And tender me, forsooth, affection,
For nought but provender, and when he's old, cashier'd:
My daughter is not for thee; and now, in madness,
Like a remorseful pardon slowly carried,
speak truest not truer than Troilus.
But on this travail look for greater birth.
With her prepared nails.
Pretty and full of view; yea, haply, near
And know how we proceed.
Out of myself, press me to death with wit.
Already at my house.
To sit about the coronation.
For folly that he wisely shows is fit;
Of you, my noble cousin Buckingham,
As rushing out of doors, to be resolved
this quarrel.
Thou hast no hands, to wipe away thy tears:
Safely in harbour
That for your highness' good I ever labour'd
That gives our Troy, our Rome, the civil wound.
[Aside]  I know that Deformed; a' has been a vile
Kill the poys and the luggage! 'tis expressly
Devoutly dotes, dotes in idolatry,
What, ho, the emperor's guard! The guard, what, ho!
Where he bestows himself?
Your guest, then, madam:
With all my heart, sir.
As they are going out, enter EDGAR disguised
That it may be this day read over in Paul's.
Marry, my child, early next Thursday morn,
O, now be gone; more light and light it grows.
Or, guilty in defence, be thus destroy'd?
Enter FORD
'Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire;'
This airy charm is for, I'll break my staff,
Methought I sat in seat of majesty
For any thing he shall be charged withal:
O, now doth Death line his dead chaps with steel;
Your honours shall perceive how I will work
Good my lord, tell it.
Prove it before these varlets here, thou honourable
Retiring with HORATIO
Even at that time I may be married too.
The one is my sovereign, whom both my oath
Not what is dangerous present, but the loss
Alone, it was the subject of my theme;
Above five hours: see how she gins to blow
And whiles the honourable captain there
You dare easier be friends with me than fight with mine enemy.
To do myself this wrong: till, at the last,
Not sickness should detain me.
Owe their estates unto him.
Would Desdemona seriously incline:
Refuse you for my judge; whom, yet once more,
What boots it thee to call thyself a sun?
When the day serves, before black-corner'd night,
What, dost thou weep? Come nearer. Then I
What's this to my Lysander? where is he?
Or less than a just pound, be it but so much
What bloody man is that? He can report,
To tell thee that this day is ominous:
Make dust our paper and with rainy eyes
husband? I love him well; he is an honest man.
From our debate, from our dissension;
And when my uncle told me so, he wept,
By all of us, and the fair soul herself
Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead,
Thy spirit within thee hath been so at war
And less than this, I am sure, you cannot give.
The casting forth to crows thy baby-daughter
men, as long as I have an eye to make difference of
Wishing me with him, partner of his fortune.
Lovers and madmen have such seething brains,
Of such an ungrown warrior.
Endured of her, for whom you bid like sorrow.
A noble servant to them; but he could not
We hear, our bloody cousins are bestow'd
Might have prevented many. Eros, ho!
Not shriving-time allow'd.
And won by rareness such solemnity.
The truth appears so naked on my side
Bottom! O most courageous day! O most happy hour!
ACT IV
Enter BIANCA and LUCENTIO
Come, go along; my wife is coming yonder.
He is a man, and, Clifford, cope with him.
O, never was there queen
Come, you and I must walk a turn together;
Gentlemen, will you go muster men?
Fear not that, I warrant thee. Come, let's march
All-hallond eve.
A word of this. What, ho! within! come forth!
Exeunt some with KING HENRY VI
Ay, my lord, an't please you.
Go ply thy needle; meddle not with her.
You are moved, prince; let us depart, I pray you,
Madam, good hope; his grace speaks cheerfully.
For pax of little price.
Proud majesty a subject, state a peasant.
And instances of infinite of love
Time enough to go to bed with a candle, I warrant
And pray your mother's blessing. Turn, good lady;
What, this?
Her sight did ravish; but her grace in speech,
I did not think thee lord of such a spirit:
From wayward sickness, and no grounded malice.
Enter CLEOPATRA and her maids aloft, with CHARMIAN and IRAS
Yes, every man of them, and no man here
Methinks it should be now a huge eclipse
Say that some lady, as perhaps there is,
And all that shall succeed: Saba was never
almost a fray.
Exit RODERIGO
Ten thousand years together, naked, fasting,
What many men desire! that 'many' may be meant
Some sins do bear their privilege on earth,
him when Hector has knocked out his brains, I know
Be not so hot; the duke
me. If then thou be son to me, here lies the point;
Hiding the grossness with fair ornament?
My heart, sweet boy, shall be thy sepulchre,
'Tis bargain'd 'twixt us twain, being alone,
That's fouler.
Sir, the queen.
'Enough, enough,' and die. That thing you speak of,
Lord mayor, the reason we have sent--
Because sweet flowers are slow and weeds make haste.
Bring him forth: has sat i' the stocks all night,
Well-minded Clarence, be thou fortunate!
Were both extermined.
Exit running; Attendants follow
father compounded with my mother under the
Change not your offer made in heat of blood;
wilt not promise, the gods plague thee, for thou art
Thou dost not slumber: see, thy two sons' heads,
men, what you have to the king: being something
And in a bloody battle end thy days!
I pray you, mar no more trees with writing
A look untender? If't be summer news,
Kneel not, gentle Portia.
My lord and lady, it is now our time,
Makes him speak fondly, like a frantic man
Now, divine air! now is his soul ravished! Is it
How should they, when that wise men have no eyes?
am the besom that must sweep the court clean of such
Out of my sight!
for ladies.
To endure more miseries and greater far
And be my heart an ever-burning hell!
That tips with silver all these fruit-tree tops--
With bated breath and whispering humbleness, Say this;
Re-enter MISTRESS PAGE and ROBIN
Ay, Timon.
By what we can, which can no more but fly.
What wouldst thou have, boor? what: thick-skin?
These My lips,
And chastise with the valour of my tongue
We banish thee for ever.
That issue out of dust. Happy thou art not;
I may be heard, I would crave a word or two;
it.
Whose maiden blood, thus rigorously effused,
speak not this that you should bear a good opinion
Heaven doth with us as we with torches do,
When we have soil'd them, nor the remainder viands
Of double-fatal yew against thy state;
In whom the tide rested, were suppress'd.
could have seen 't, the woe had been universal.
Tug him away: being whipp'd,
Enter SALISBURY
Hamlet return'd shall know you are come home:
Why ask you?
Less impudence to gainsay what they did
Yield to our mercy, proud Plantagenet.
Sir Toby Belch! how now, Sir Toby Belch!
And over-shine the earth as this the world.
hypocrite, but prays from his heart.
You health. So please you, sir.
most virtuous gentlewoman that ever nature had
Therefore, Caveto be thy counsellor.
Well, say. Peace, ho!
Rich, only to be wretched, thy great fortunes
I humbly thank you for't.
If you shall cleave to my consent, when 'tis,
Of homage and I know not how much tribute,
Talk us to silence.
Shall on them settle. You know your places well;
A herald, ho!
Macbeth shall never vanquish'd be until
I am sorry thou wilt leave my father so:
played their parts with Beatrice; and then the two
The sound is going away; let's follow it, and
Pray thee, go seek him, and bring him to my tent.
Which was, that he, in lieu o' the premises
This slave-like habit? and these looks of care?
For every trifle are they set upon me;
Tush, women have been captivate ere now.
Enlarge the man committed yesterday,
That Rome holds of his name; wherein obscurely
As deputy unto that gracious king,
It's fit this royal session do proceed;
Be it ounce, or cat, or bear,
appear foul! takes virtuous copies to be wicked,
No die, but an ace, for him; for he is but one.
I remember a mass of things, but nothing distinctly;
[To FERDINAND]  Ay, sweet my lord; and so I take my leave.
'Faith, tell me now in earnest, how came Falstaff's
I dare not, sir
thorn-bush, my thorn-bush; and this dog, my dog.
He was as rattling thunder. For his bounty,
As the free elements. And then for her
Some stay to see him fasten'd in the earth.
Nor posted off their suits with slow delays;
Can you advise me?
Thou shalt not die whiles--
To bear a hard opinion of his truth:
As you did love, but as you fear'd him.
Sent he to Macduff?
Hear me, people; peace!
Yorkshire.
and I'll play my father.
It might have since been answer'd in repaying
Tongue, lose thy light;
The hard and soft seem all affined and kin:
Exit
Is my poor heart for a kinsman vex'd.
Leaves them invisible, and his siege is now
Could I with boot change for an idle plume,
My soul doth tell me Hero is belied;
Very well. Follow that lord; and look you mock him
On his behalf.
Signior, no.
Enter, several of both houses, who join the fray; then enter Citizens, with clubs
And yet I come not well.
Exeunt OLIVIA and MARIA
Meantime receive such welcome at my hand
will go about with him. Come you hither, sirrah; a
O that ever I was born!
consider, he's an enemy to mankind.
You mistake, sir, you mistake, sir. Pray, what do
Was ever, to do well: nor is there living,
To-morrow dinner, then?
The hostess-ship o' the day.
But this I know, they have demean'd themselves
Quite besides
Then strike up drums: God and Saint George for us!
Take all the swift advantage of the hours;
Hold, take my ring.
Draw near them then in being merciful:
It would make a man mad as a buck, to be so bought and sold.
Even since it could speak, from an infant, freely
paper shortly: what need these feasts, pomps and
Command, I mean, of virtuous chaste intents,
To wash this blood off from my guilty hand:
O my dear father! Restoration hang
Arise sir Richard and Plantagenet.
That outward courtesies would fain proclaim
What holier than, for royalty's repair,
Now, by the ground that I am banish'd from,
To that your diamond; I'll keep them.
to the Antipodes that you can devise to send me on;
Exit
the gift of fortune; but to write and read comes by nature.
Here; I will mend thy feast.
Or this imperious man will work us all
The bruit is, Hector's slain, and by Achilles.
May see the sea hath cast upon your coast.
O, but impatience waiteth on true sorrow.
If 'twere no other--
A passion most unsuiting such a man--
Most learned reverend sir, into our kingdom:
are: make the trial of it in any constant question.
Which Pericles hath lost,
And make me blest to obey! I am brought hither
A very even way, but no such friend.
mind it was: this is called the Retort Courteous.
not to do your office, as you will answer it at your peril.'
To deck his fortune with his virtuous deeds:
Enter Hostess and SLY
unbolted villain into mortar, and daub the wall of
I'll tell ye more.
This gentleman told somewhat of my tale,--
That our renowned Rome, whose gratitude
Or as the south to the septentrion.
He named Sebastian: I my brother know
Then feeling what small things are boisterous there,
Cressid comes forth to him.
And bring thy news so late?
To dog his heels and curtsy at his frowns,
And give to dust that is a little gilt
Thy goodly armour thus hath cost thy life.
Which you do live upon; and fit it is,
Enrich the time to come with smooth-faced peace,
Do not torment me, prithee; I'll bring my wood home faster.
Well, well, my lords, respect him;
Here they fight
on't: this shall end without the perdition of souls.
of. He left behind him myself and a sister, both
Pierced to the soul with slander's venom'd spear,
Had time cohered with place or place with wishing,
A sixth, a tenth, letting them thrive again
One rich enough to be Petruchio's wife,
I have them ready.
Doth root upon, while that the coulter rusts
Make holiday; your rye-straw hats put on
High on a stage be placed to the view;
thee, captain,
rank as a fox.
What authority surfeits on would relieve us: if they
carelessly, as they did in the golden world.
Why, would not you?
Thou wast a pretty fellow when thou hadst no need to
Another stain, as big as hell can hold,
great matter.
To the trunk again, and shut the spring of it.
Go, go, good countrymen, and, for this fault,
He gives them the arrows
Not with fond shekels of the tested gold,
Down with the topmast! yare! lower, lower! Bring
His outsides, to wear them like his raiment,
And spend her strength with over-matching waves.
Exit
'Twere now to be most happy; for, I fear,
I know not whether God will have it so,
Enter JULIET
Whilst what we have kill'd be cook'd.
For they that were your enemies are his,
I shall have my noble?
Do appear, to make the world twice rich. Live,
You have prevail'd, my lord; if I can do it
My lord, 'tis nothing.
Thou dearest Perdita,
Whether this be
RICHARD
Resign it then and leave thine insolence.
I am sorry for't.
4. Choristers, singing.
found Benedick and Beatrice between the sheet?
the stile, this way.
A man that languishes in your displeasure.
Between the king and you; and to deliver,
I kept were knaves, to serve in meat to villains.
Do not, for one repulse, forego the purpose
A woeful pageant have we here beheld.
Woe's scene, world's shame, grave's due by life usurp'd,
I am sorry now that I did draw on him.
To do no contrived murder: I lack iniquity
Either thou art most ignorant by age,
Look to the boy.
I serve here voluntarily.
Till she had laid it and conjured it down;
Early in blustering morn this lady was
bastard, what a joyful father wouldst thou make me!
By gar, he has save his soul, dat he is no come; he
the shearers, three-man-song-men all, and very good
Run, run, O, run!
see the man, that has but two legs, that shall find
Would I admit; no name of magistrate;
Than those she placeth highest! So, farewell.
Cannot defend our own doors from the dog,
O, father, you'll know more of that hereafter.
His grace looks cheerfully and smooth to-day;
Did you not use his daughter very friendly?
Yet you began rudely. What are you? what would you?
have relished among my other discredits.
and blue list; an old hat and 'the humour of forty
Sir John, we have had ill luck; we could never meet.
Beloved of me; and that my deeds shall prove.
him manifests the true knowledge he has in their
Put off that gown, Trinculo; by this hand, I'll have
Not many moons gone by.
From that supernal judge, that stirs good thoughts
As I! foh! fie upon thee!
Why, with my lord, madam.
Exeunt
As two yoke-devils sworn to either's purpose,
The union of your bed with weeds so loathly
For one being fear'd of all, now fearing one;
Mine and my father's death come not upon thee,
'as sure as day,'
So do you too, where you perceive them thick.
For many so arrive at second masters,
Philip! sparrow: James,
Which on my faith deserves high speech, and straight
Return us thanks.
And so he vanish'd: then came wandering by
At Herod's bloody-hunting slaughtermen.
An honourable conduct let him have:
O, train me not, sweet mermaid, with thy note,
By him and by this woman here what know you?
That Lucius' banishment was wrongfully,
Thou know'st we parted: but perhaps, my son,
Which some call nature's bastards: of that kind
This senior-junior, giant-dwarf, Dan Cupid;
Sweet mercy is nobility's true badge:
I come, Graymalkin!
An old thing 'twas, but it express'd her fortune,
By gar, me do look he shall clapper-de-claw me;
I have some marks of yours upon my pate,
And it grows fouler.
another style.
Speak no more of her. Give me a bowl of wine.
Lord, have mercy upon me! I shall never be able to
In stamps that are forbid: 'tis all as easy
Why, art thou mad, old fellow?
bare till merit crown it: no perfection in reversion
What is six winters? they are quickly gone.
What's he?
Her face the book of praises, where is read
Of chamber-hanging, pictures, this her bracelet,--
Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason,
and drown? Have you a mind to sink?
Nay, it is petter yet. Give her this letter; for it
Worthy fellows; and like to prove most sinewy sword-men.
If he do fear God, a' must necessarily keep peace:
That were the authors.
herself. Be happy, lady; for you are like an
Whilst I propose the selfsame words to thee,
shall not shame me.
Did make offence his eye did heal it up.
say there's but five upon this isle: we are three
less. What's next?
The danger to itself?
SCENE I. The Abbey at Bury St. Edmund's.
Extremity of griefs would make men mad;
I tell thee, I, that thou hast marr'd her gown.
Which thou wilt propagate, to have it prest
And in the Capitol and senate's right,
Where, my lord?
I'll give a thousand pound to look upon him.
Grace grow where those drops fall!
I'll then nor give nor hazard aught for lead.
From forth the kennel of thy womb hath crept
with him; I'll have an action of battery against
In the same time 'tis made? I will not.
But that your daughter, ere she seems as won,
A pretty plot, well chosen to build upon!
Thy full supremacy thou knew'st, and that
Exit
Dies
My dukedom since you have given me again,
Exit with Jessica and Salarino
I say, a devil. Thinkest thou, Hortensio, though
SCENE III. Court of TITUS's house. A banquet set out.
Neglect him not; make use now, and provide
And overlook their grafters?
[Aside]  Pray heaven she win him!
Things to strike honour sad. Bid him recount
I know not, Menas,
sharp sauce.
Am I a woodman, ha? Speak I like Herne the hunter?
on, then read the names of the actors, and so grow
If you do hold the same intent wherein
For since the substance of your perfect self
Shall Romeo bear thee hence to Mantua.
To wring the widow from her custom'd right,
PINDARUS ascends the hill
Enter HASTINGS
Dead to infliction, to themselves are dead;
though they can outstrip men, they have no wings to
of you, like a foul-mouthed man as he is; and said
That carry but half sense: her speech is nothing,
Through my burn'd bosom, nor entreat the north
Resolve thee, Richard; claim the English crown.
Tarry you a little-a while.
When judges steal themselves. What, do I love her,
She is spread of late
Take this of me: Lucrece was not more chaste
In choosing for yourself, you show'd your judgment,
My mate, that's never to be found again,
Alas, my father, it befits not me
Jew to sup to-night with my new master the Christian.
According to the measure of their states.
Comes through commissions, which compel from each
I'll wait upon you, and I long to hear it.
With that dread King that took our state upon him
Mark Antony!
This lout as he exceeds our lords, the odds
Mistake me not--to save my life, for if
Marry, before he fell down, when he perceived the
Wherefore my father should revengers want,
Though I perchance am vicious in my guess,
Your fellow tribune.
'Tis my undoing: love and meekness, lord,
The beauty of this sinful dame
O, do not slander him, for he is kind.
May suffer alteration, on mine honour,
Then let him know, and tell him Timon speaks it,
Lucius, awake!
I shall obey you.
Sound a parley
And will to-morrow with his trumpet call
rest; for there is nothing in the between but
Ne'er turns the key to the poor.
You know your places: God be with you all!
But give me leave to try success, I'ld venture
The world will say, he is not Talbot's blood,
Enter IAGO
And when he was not six and twenty strong,
Feast at my house, and he shall feast with them.
In beastly sort, dragg'd through the shameful field.
be followed: after them, and take a more dilated farewell.
Whose life were ill bestow'd or death unfamed
Why, what concerns his freedom unto me?
Our landmen will stand up.
hang'd first.
The illness should attend it: what thou wouldst highly,
Who on the French ground play'd a tragedy,
To temper clay. Yea, it is come to this?
Where are my Switzers? Let them guard the door.
Why, how now, Hamlet!
Pray so; and, for the ordering your affairs,
For honour travels in a strait so narrow,
Good grandsire, leave these bitter deep laments:
Ha!
Till she herself confess it.
If you, born in these latter times,
Enter Widow and DIANA
Give rest to the minds of others, such as he
Evermore showering? In one little body
Go anticly, show outward hideousness,
For ending thee no sooner. Thou hast nor youth nor age,
What handkerchief?
Which in the right of Richard Plantagenet
the woman and I will do as we may.
What a plague means my niece, to take the death of
[Within]  Hillo, ho, ho, my lord!
his displeasure; which at this instant so rageth
abhorred in my imagination it is! my gorge rims at
Put we i' the roll of conquest: still be't yours,
Trumpets sound a parley
'Pardon' should be the first word of thy speech.
Some griefs are med'cinable; that is one of them,
Run after that same peevish messenger,
As by discharge of their artillery,
Enter Outlaws with SILVIA
The very principals did seem to rend,
Hermione, my dearest, thou never spokest
You put me to forget a lady's manners,
Look that you love your wife; her worth worth yours.
'Zounds, I will speak of him; and let my soul
A far more glorious star thy soul will make
If this might be a brother.
To keep her chamber.
For even her folly help'd her to an heir.
The organs, though defunct and dead before,
Thou mayst befriend me so much as to think
To the Pedant
Where art thou?
plain-song of it.
'Item: She can spin.'
Whom you yourselves shall set out for reproof
We shall have a rare letter from him: but you'll
Bows toward her, and would under-peep her lids,
Therefore I do it; and I make no doubt
And you this glove. When shall I see you?
Home-keeping youth have ever homely wits.
Thou hast a servant named Lucilius.
fledged; and then it is the complexion of them all
All causes to the purpose of his speed,
there's one up.
O good Horatio, what a wounded name,
No? Saw you not, even now, a blessed troop
POLONIUS hides behind the arras
drink, and fear not your man.
Look you, sir; here comes your ghostly father: do
If she were by, to hear you make the offer.
Sound a flourish. Exeunt
Ay, in despite of all that shall withstand you.
This evening coming.
Sir, I can nothing say,
The legate of the pope hath been with me,
Hold thy whore, Grecian!--now for thy whore,
And say in thunder 'Achilles go to him.'
By God's fair ordinance conjoin together!
And left me to a bootless inquisition,
Whose beard they have singed off with brands of fire;
And service to his majesty and you,
Myself by with a needle, that I might prick
Then will she get the upshoot by cleaving the pin.
Who? the most exquisite Claudio?
Well bandied both; a set of wit well play'd.
I will dispatch you severally; you to Lord Lucius;
Lady, with me, with me thy fortune lies.
Where what is done in action, more, if might,
Whose sudden sight hath thrall'd my wounded eye.
Sans cheque to good and bad: but when the planets
Well, well, thou hast a careful father, child;
Enter two or three Gentlemen
of me? shall I not take mine case in mine inn but I
well that die in a battle; for how can they
Though war nor no known quarrel were in question,
Beseech your honour
On her dead mistress; tremblingly she stood
Methinks thou art more honest now than wise;
Enter MONTANO and two Gentlemen
This is the air; that is the glorious sun;
[Aside to ISABELLA]  Art avised o' that? more on 't.
wantons, down!' 'Twas her brother that, in pure
If you do find him, pray you, give him this;
Which fence the roots they grow by and defend them,
past compare: he is not the flower of courtesy,
reserve it, how shall's get it?
Did the sea cast it up?
dearly? By this kind of chase, I should hate him,
I'll believe him as an enemy, and give over my trade.
The story of your loves discovered:
We here discharge your grace from being regent
But if you be afeard to hear the worst,
Than I can lay it down in likelihood.
Caesar, thou canst not die by traitors' hands,
And this the bleeding business they have done:
They have made themselves, and that their fitness now
To bring the roof to the foundation,
Rise, prithee, rise.
SCENE XI. Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace.
Good reverend father, make my person yours,
Relenting fool, and shallow, changing woman!
Although this lord of weak remembrance, this,
Against my lady's kingdom: 'tis enough
shall use me hereafter, drybeat the rest of the
In their own shapes; for it can never be
Free from these slanders and this open shame!
Upon these paltry, servile, abject drudges!
The uncivil kerns of Ireland are in arms
Do, young sir; your reputation shall not therefore
In several hands, in at his windows throw,
A trumpet sounds
Rivers and Dorset, you were standers by,
The king is moved, and answers not to this.
Why bear you these rebukes and answer not?
Of his demerits rob Cominius.
Adieu, my Lord; Sir Valentine is coming.
Leave not a rack behind. We are such stuff
But fathers that bear bags
of honour; so belike is that.
ACT IV
A long flourish till they come down
I have a daughter, sir, called Katharina.
O mercy, God! what masquing stuff is here?
Nay then, the wanton lies; my face is black.
rewards me, God reward him! If I do grow great,
Enter KING HENRY, LORD JOHN OF LANCASTER, the EARL of WESTMORELAND, SIR WALTER BLUNT, and others
All have not offended;
What I have been I have forgot to know;
Flourish. Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE, DUKE OF YORK, with other Lords, and Attendants
How to forget that learning, but, sir, now
Do de, de, de. Sessa! Come, march to wakes and
But though I am a daughter to his blood,
[Aside]  Mass, 'twill be sore law, then; for he was
hanging: make the rope of his destiny our cable,
Exit
Enter EARL OF SALISBURY and a Welsh Captain
I will not say so, for fear I should be faced out of
Lord, Lord, how the ladies and I have put him down!
For she had eyes, and chose me. No, Iago;
Re-enter PETRUCHIO, KATHARINA, BIANCA, BAPTISTA, HORTENSIO, GRUMIO, and Train
I pray thee, good Mercutio, let's retire:
May stand with ours, this day to be conjoin'd
What is the cause, Laertes,
Shall have the leading of this foot and horse.
But I'll deceive you in another sort,
discourse peremptory, his tongue filed, his eye
By your pardon;
So would you be again to Henry,
O' the jewel house,
title age cannot bring thee.
But they are cruel tears: this sorrow's heavenly;
From eaves of reeds. Your charm so strongly works 'em
were not subject to a beast? and what a beast art
I was a poor groom of thy stable, king,
be magnanimous in the enterprise and go on; I will
dangerous thing; and every man that means to live
And wanting breath to speak help me with tears.
thy smiles become thee well; therefore in my
O coz, coz, coz, my pretty little coz, that thou
I mean in singing; but in loving, Leander the good
court, and they are going to meet him.
That every day with parle encounter me,
Mistake my fortunes; I am wealthy in my friends.
From women's eyes this doctrine I derive:
The special head of all the land together:
If that shepherd be not in hand-fast, let him fly:
Deserves thy trust, and thy most perfect goodness
sooner it wears. That thou art my son, I have
Can nothing speak? Master, shall I strike?
And must we be divided? must we part?
M, O, A, I; this simulation is not as the former: and
His face still combating with tears and smiles,
We three, to hear it and end it between them.
That power I have, discharge; and let them go
My wit untrain'd in any kind of art.
I know what you would say: if I have known her,
In that and all things will we show our duty.
As give a crutch to the dead: but our count-cardinal
what's Achilles?
Or never after look me in the face:
Whose father for his hoarding went to hell?
No, no, I will not, having breath to cry:
Portia is Brutus' harlot, not his wife.
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH
Here was a gentleman of Normandy:--
Come thou on my side, and entreat for me,
Here stand we both, and aim we at the best:
And on the gates of Lud's-town set your heads:
Against an oracle.
Of thy unnatural uncle, English John:
Why, none but mine own people.
Love goes toward love, as schoolboys from
Is in his retirement marvellous distempered.
For suffering so the causes of our wreck.
speak, breathe, discuss; brief, short, quick, snap.
It must be granted I am Duke of Lancaster.
Wholly, sir.
He means, my lord, that we are too remiss;
And, sure, he is an honourable man.
words to it: and then let her consider.
Who dazzling so, that eye shall be his heed
venture so.
Prove as successful to the queen,--O be't so!--
To prove, by God's grace and my body's valour,
To show how quaint an orator you are:
He is noble, wise, judicious, and best knows
Even till that England, hedged in with the main,
But shall I go mourn for that, my dear?
Whither, my lord? Cesario, husband, stay.
Nay, lay thee down and roar;
And Hymen now with luckier issue speed's
I would not lose the dog for twenty pound.
The sight is dismal;
What angel shall
Please you, gentlemen,
And deck my body in gay ornaments,
Well, is it, is it?
That England, that was wont to conquer others,
Exeunt MACBETH and LENNOX
There is my hand, and let it feel your ear.
Enter Chorus
Before the eye and prospect of your town,
soul, i' faith, sir; by my troth he is, as ever
thou, Trot? Is the world as it was, man? Which is
as fresh as when we were at Tunis at the marriage
Forgot thee utterly: nor have I time
Her amber hair for foul hath amber quoted.
You have Christian warrant for 'em, and, no doubt,
Ay, what's o'clock?
Enter DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, BENEDICK, and LEONATO
Chaos is come again.
That heaven's vault should crack. She's gone for ever!
If thou hadst fear'd to break an oath by Him,
What, my dear Lady Disdain! are you yet living?
I thank thee for it; and heaven forbid
Ay, by my troth, the case may be amended.
hands for my service but blows. When I am cold, he
Are ye so hot, sir? yet, Pucelle, hold thy peace;
How I have thought of this and of these times,
Or what is worst will follow.
O Lord, sir, it were pity you should get your living
After life's fitful fever he sleeps well;
Past speaking of in a king! Thou hast one daughter,
'Small herbs have grace, great weeds do grow apace:'
Break with your wives of your departure hence:
Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
Come, my Marina.
Dies
Madam, the care I have had to even your content, I
So, so; rub on, and kiss the mistress. How now!
that only tells a lie and swears it. I cannot be a
To the dead bodies of my queen and son:
A mother and two brothers: but, O scorn!
And underneath that consecrated roof,
Where is the number of our English dead?
led my ragamuffins where they are peppered: there's
Musings into my mind, with thousand doubts
What, art thou devout? wast thou in prayer?
Not met us on the way.
'Tis indeed, madam; we thank the giver.
For though my soul disputes well with my sense,
Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes,
Knowing I loved my books, he furnish'd me
Some certain of your brethren roar'd and ran
And I.
The uncertain glory of an April day,
the soil, the land, the earth.
You see what mischief and what murder too
Canst thou, when thou command'st the beggar's knee,
Nor fortune made such havoc of my means,
gives rare new liveries: if I serve not him, I
With other princes that may best be spared,
Perform'd in this wide gap of time since first
To gild refined gold, to paint the lily,
One Michael Cassio, a Florentine,
Then know that I, one Snug the joiner, am
He's gentle and not fearful.
Shall thy good uncle, and thy brother Lucius,
With hearts more proof than shields. Advance,
Protector be; and God shall be my hope,
When on my three-foot stool I sit and tell
Be not dismayed.
Tell him, the daughter of the King of France,
The presentation of but what I was;
The gods defend me!
Tennis-balls, my liege.
The boy is foolish, and I fear not him.
Come, help to bear thy master;
My love as it begins shall so persever.
One day he gives us diamonds, next day stones.
Exit PANDARUS
knaves come to do that for me which I am aweary of.
Wilt thou not speak to me?
day during his life; he could not have 'scaped
She will indite him to some supper.
I give to baser life. So; have you done?
I perceive you delight not in music.
am loved of all ladies, only you excepted: and I
Broken his staff of office and dispersed
Does not become a sword: thy great employment
Therefore, no more but this: Henry, your sovereign,
window, for all this, There will come a Christian
As I will lend you cause, my doing well
Goes upright with his carriage. How's the day?
The presenters above speak
Bad child; worse father! to entice his own
Enter ISABELLA
A motley fool; a miserable world!
Into the good thoughts of the world again,
She gave strange oeillades and most speaking looks
Upon the next tree shalt thou hang alive,
You to a long and well-deserved bed:
OF EPHESUS
But there is Mordake, Vernon, Lord Harry Percy,
Needs no more but one tongue for all those wounds,
As bending angels; that's their fame in peace:
Or, if you borrow one another's love for the
Here's another ballad of a fish, that appeared upon
According to my shallow simple skill.
Aside
What thou art promised: yet do I fear thy nature;
countenance her.
Subdue him at his peril.
I'll make her render up her page to me.
Even to the disposition that I owe,
Unless my hand and strength could equal them.
What, man! 'tis not so much, 'tis not so much:
Welcome! one mess is like to be your cheer:
Let me alone.
Ye favourites of a king: are we not high?
Sweet friends, your patience for my long abode;
Exeunt ANTONIO and SEBASTIAN
Blown with the windy tempest of my heart,
Were it not good your grace could fly to heaven?
Such comfort as do lusty young men feel
Out, you mad-headed ape!
I pay thy poverty, and not thy will.
Ah, this thou shouldst have done,
Putting a paper crown on his head
For I am much ashamed of my exchange:
return: let there be covenants drawn between's: my
Already; and, as I hear, the provost hath
With our own charge, making a treaty where
Of mere compassion and of lenity,
The lustre in your eye, heaven in your cheek,
I mean, in bearing weight of government,
Alas, he hath no home, no place to fly to;
Near to the king in blood, and near in love
Show me a villain that hath done a rape,
My presence, like a robe pontifical,
'Tis almost night: you shall have better cheer
He's mad that trusts in the tameness of a wolf, a
And hold our lives in mercy. Oswald, I say!
To be protector of his excellence?
When others are more wicked: not being the worst
So service shall with steeled sinews toil,
Your love deserves my thanks; but my desert
What shall I do? say what; what shall I do?
The vigour and the picture of my youth:
Is sorer than to lie for need, and falsehood
Rascals should have 't. Do not assume my likeness.
Thus it is: the Volsces have an army forth; against
Perhaps some merchant hath invited him,
For which I would not plead, but that I must;
SONG.
To wear an undeserved dignity.
Thou desirest me to stop in my tale against the hair.
homewards. Good sir, go with us.
Out o' tune, sir: ye lie. Art any more than a
The actors are at hand and by their show
I am glad of your departure: adieu, good Monsieur
Our bruised arms hung up for monuments;
That you would have me seek into myself
Call up the right master constable. We have here
Mended again. The matter; proceed.
He is a good sprag memory. Farewell, Mistress Page.
In all his dressings, characts, titles, forms,
And doubting lest that he had err'd or sinn'd,
Exeunt
Is that an answer?
And every drop cries vengeance for his death,
Will you not push her out? Give her the bastard.
I know not, sir.
The better to beguile. This is for all:
But O how vile an idol proves this god
To sound more sweetly in great Caesar's ear
To give him welcome.
Or shall we on without a apology?
Repeat your will and take it.
'Twere pity two such friends should be long foes.
l'avez promis, il est content de vous donner la
by the lesser legs: if any be Trinculo's legs,
My crown I should give off? Even so I have:
But to maintain the king, the realm and you?
Here are your sons again; and I must lose
And kiss your princely nephew, brothers both.
Marcius, 'tis true that you have lately told us;
One speak for both. What would you?
I pray you, let me look upon the bond.
An a' may catch your hide and you alone:
If old sir Robert did beget us both
man, let it sleep? a bugbear take him!
That bear the shapes of men, how have you run
After the last enchantment you did here,
thine ignorance makes thee away: farewell. When
Hot coals of vengeance! Let no soldier fly.
Could ever yet cut breath? Let no man mock me,
stand bald before him: our general himself makes a
Dreamt of encounters 'twixt thyself and me;
When daffodils begin to peer,
Exeunt, leading off MELUN
I shall.
Good father, I beseech you on my knees,
Now will I to that old Andronicus;
Trip, Audrey! trip, Audrey! I attend, I attend.
As yet I do not: but, as I can learn,
That is no slander, sir, which is a truth;
Will tie you to the numbers and the time
Upon his death-bed he by will bequeath'd
It issues from the rancour of a villain,
The first, Edward the Black Prince, Prince of Wales;
Caesar hath hang'd him. Canidius and the rest
gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
And shivering shocks
EPILOGUE
Not in this land shall he remain uncaught;
Anon, anon!
Give her the right you should have given her cousin,
Give not this rotten orange to your friend;
Shall be for me; and, to requite you further,
Only to part friends:
A sea and land full. You have pray'd well to-day:
To save the Romans, thereby to destroy
Yonder, sir, he walks.
Good night, my lord.
Mistress, we have.
In dreadful war mayst thou be overcome,
Exit
Let us go.
I have not stopp'd mine ears to their demands,
Speak, good Sicinius.
I would the college of the cardinals
He lays his breast open: she offers at it with his sword
He and Lepidus are at Caesar's house.
From monster's view, and all things shall be peace.
Be not enshelter'd and embay'd, they are drown'd:
estate upon you, and here live and die a shepherd.
Which false hope lingers in extremity.
A thousand crowns, or else lay down your head.
To cast up, with a pair of anchoring hooks,
So shouldst thou either turn my flying soul,
Sir, the contempts thereof are as touching me.
Unless the deed go with it; from this moment
And deal in her command without her power.
Abused her delicate youth with drugs or minerals
me the king's brother-in-law.
This is the liver-vein, which makes flesh a deity,
Which I have told thee of my father's death:
Grace me no grace, nor uncle me no uncle:
Were tried by every tongue, every eye saw 'em,
And God keep him out of my sight when the dance is
Ever beloved and loving may his rule be!
And this fell tempest shall not cease to rage
By all the blood that ever fury breathed,
'Tis far off
Friar Lodowick to be a dishonest person?
Stand!
By the which marriage the line of Charles the Great
When I behold--Seyton, I say!--This push
And even here brake off, and came away.
Here come our brothers.
Is gone with her along, and I must after,
O sweet Oliver,
Draw forth thy weapon, we are beset with thieves;
By many hands your father was subdued;
Behold thy fill.
And ears so cloy'd importantly as now,
The sun is in the heaven, and the proud day,
All, sirrah, all:
To holy altars.
me:
be just! This is the letter he spoke of, which
Since you can cog, I'll play no more with you.
Well, I am standing water.
The fouler fortune mine, and there an end.
Exit
Ambassadors from Harry King of England
The young Dumain, a well-accomplished youth,
Then, what it was that next came in her eye,
He rose against him, being his sovereign,
request, I can tell you.
She is a theme of honour and renown,
Let us be back'd with God and with the seas
But he that temper'd thee bade thee stand up,
Alack, where are you speak, an if you hear;
I'll attend your lordship.
'Tis time; descend; be stone no more; approach;
Alas, sir, I cannot fence.
Nor thine on me.
Force me to keep you as a prisoner,
After all this, how did he bear himself?
They fall their crests, and, like deceitful jades,
Much will be seen in that. In the mean time,
To rot itself with motion.
which you have not; but I pardon you for that, for
Putting it straight in expedition.
world! world! thus is the poor agent despised!
to any gentlewoman, and very weak dealing.
And hither have they sent it for her ransom.
To close the day up, Hector's life is done.
'Tis Cinna; I do know him by his gait;
Where peremptory Warwick now remains:
And, as you trip, still pinch him to your time.
coming, to offer you service.
I pray you, uncle, give me this dagger.
Below the beam of sight, yet will I still
Take but degree away, untune that string,
In golden palaces, as it becomes.
grows old: God help the while! a bad world, I say.
Gentlemen, I have dreamed to-night; I'll tell you my
How much we do o'er-count thee.
The enfranchisement of Arthur; whose restraint
Every man,
And have is have, however men do catch:
Among the thorns and dangers of this world.
To my unfolding lend your prosperous ear;
Turns to a wild of nothing, save of joy,
Dost thou hear, Hal? thou knowest in the state of
I cannot choose
Enter KING HENRY VI and GLOUCESTER, with the Lieutenant, on the walls
[Aside]  He should give her interest and she gives it him.
Young budding virgin, fair and fresh and sweet,
What would You, Desdemona?
Than for your lady's: you may gather more.
They laugh at. O my mother, mother! O!
spirit--give thee thy due--and one that knows what
Be it so; go back: the virtue of your name
The battles of the Lord of hosts he fought:
Enter GLOUCESTER, HASTINGS, and DORSET
[To KING RICHARD III]
A grandam's name is little less in love
Which their own conscience seal'd them--laying by
Like high-rear'd bulwarks, stand before our faces;
of this walk, and my horns I bequeath your husbands.
Edward thy son, which now is Prince of Wales,
And yielding to another when it blows,
Yea, brother Richard, are you offended too?
Enter WARWICK and GLOUCESTER
And say 'twill do, I know, within a while
a ship of rich lading wrecked on the narrow seas;
Will you draw near!
Our equalness to this. Hear me, good friends--
And lend no ear unto my purposes.
Taking the measure of an unmade grave.
Lest, being like one of heaven, the devils themselves
Bequeath thy land to him and follow me?
'Tis since the earthquake now eleven years;
Re-enter Servant, with wine
estimation in the world; but did see him do as
Sir John and all.
Though others have the arm, show us the sleeve;
That best know how to rule and how to reign,
Even to roaring.
That, as I am a Christian faithful man,
Defacers of a public peace, than I do.
You do awake your faith. Then all stand still;
Nature teaches beasts to know their friends.
To wayward sickliness and age in him:
Direct you to the best!
any matter of weight chances, call up me: keep your
Excellently done, if God did all.
I tell thee, yea.
Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.
And may, through all the world: 'tis yours; and we,
Farewell till soon.
And have my thanks for all.
Heaven keep me from such counsel! 'Tis most true
And that a winged Mercury did bear:
Of these most strange events:
for her cradle ere she had a husband for her bed.
Through forth-rights and meanders! By your patience,
you, to go in the song?
O, pardon me that I descend so low,
Then, tell me,
Or, naked as I am, I will assault thee.
O, thou shalt find--
[Aside]  What shall Cordelia do?
Language unmannerly, yea, such which breaks
Of his own just remove: the people muddied,
Enter SPEED
Do now attend the queen? Since they did plot
'Who ever loved that loved not at first sight?'
This day is called the feast of Crispian:
Drum. Enter BRUTUS, CASSIUS, and their Army; LUCILIUS, TITINIUS, MESSALA, and others
Let us go thank him and encourage him:
Be certain, nothing truer; 'tis no jest
Hath he seen majesty? Isis else defend,
I have rubb'd this young quat almost to the sense,
SCENE III. The British camp near Dover.
This world had air'd them: hence I took a thought,
Whereof their mother daintily hath fed,
Sir, he is rash and very sudden in choler, and haply
Why then, your ambition makes it one; 'tis too
And here choose I; joy be the consequence!
From whom he bringeth sensible regreets,
That love which virtue begs and virtue grants.
Aaron and thou look down into this den,
Exit Attendant
She will find him by starlight. Here she comes; and
That thou mayst shake the superflux to them,
And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
No judge indifferent, nor no more assurance
He hath a daily beauty in his life
SCENE IV. The Boar's-Head Tavern, Eastcheap.
A cistern for scaled snakes! Go, get thee hence:
Or, by the fires of heaven, I'll leave the foe
Who loves the king and will embrace his pardon,
Tell me not, friar, that thou hear'st of this,
Enough, captain: you have astonished him.
We are amazed; and thus long have we stood
Enter CLOTEN and two Lords
Exeunt BIONDELLO, TRANIO, and Pedant, as fast as may be
manifested effect, I crave but four days' respite;
The sacred storehouse of his predecessors,
By gar, me dank you for dat: by gar, I love you;
Enter GLOUCESTER
Though his bark cannot be lost,
A sennet. Trumpets sound. Enter COMINIUS the  general, and TITUS LARTIUS; between them, CORIOLANUS,  crowned with an oaken garland; with Captains and Soldiers, and a Herald
As he had seen't or been an instrument
the hall: he sends to know if your pleasure hold to
I tell you, 'tis incredible to believe
I think he only loves the world for him.
Brother, the time and case requireth haste:
very good friends. What a frosty-spirited rogue is
not show itself modest enough without a badge of
know no wise remedy how to avoid it.
[Aside]  Ah, sweet Anne Page!
'Tis not enough to help the feeble up,
Great Jupiter, upon his eagle back'd,
You have done that you should be sorry for.
Take the ear strangely.
drunk to-day.
With me, a poor weak woman, fall'n from favour?
To frustrate both his oath and what beside
Could not have laid such terms upon his callat.
For insurrection's arguing.
I am in your debt for your last exercise;
We burn daylight: here, read, read; perceive how I
That I yet know not?
Is fair and honest, and in his mistres s' name
And but attended by a simple guard,
Madam, you have done me wrong,
Thou canst not hit it, hit it, hit it,
Behind the ditches of the abbey here.
Defy us to our worst: for, as I am a soldier,
All health unto my gracious sovereign!
Is't night's predominance, or the day's shame,
service,--Why dost thou stop my mouth?
temperance.
Good morrow to thee, gentle Apemantus!
The children live, whose parents thou hast
company, Chitopher, Vaumond, Bentii, two hundred and
Are making hither with all due expedience
More than the wild-cat: drones hive not with me;
O, how this spring of love resembleth
So far I read aloud:
If I do line one of their hands? 'Tis gold
Carry me to the gaol!
That fill his ears with such dissentious rumours.
Hautboys. A small table under a state for CARDINAL  WOLSEY, a longer table for the guests. Then enter  ANNE and divers other Ladies and Gentlemen as  guests, at one door; at another door, enter GUILDFORD
Demetrius, here's the son of Lucius;
He hath perverted a young gentlewoman here in
Ay, noble uncle, thus ignobly used,
that hath been long studying at Rheims; as cunning
Praise her but for this her without-door form,
I play'd the cheater for thy father's hand,
Hark! by the sound of drum you may perceive
Kisses the base ground with obedient breast?
Of any prince so wild a libertine.
Let the first budger die the other's slave,
thou make minstrels of us, look to hear nothing but
Naught, naught all, naught! I can behold no longer:
Exit IAGO
I'll hear no more: die, prophet in thy speech:
And pour'd them down before him.
A subtle knave! but yet it shall not serve.
Think us no churls, nor measure our good minds
According to the fool's bolt, sir, and such dulcet diseases.
I do, I pray God my girdle break.
When man's worst sin is, he does too much good!
Now join your hands, and with your hands your hearts,
You shall have leave.
Exeunt
Gone to her tent. Please it your majesty
Courageously and with a free desire
As we shall make our griefs and clamour roar
self? It were, my lord, a hard condition for a maid
But never tax'd for speech. What heaven more will,
If swift thought break it not, a swifter mean
And, trust me, I was coming to you. You look very
He does it under name of perfect love;
O thou good Kent, how shall I live and work,
Conceal me what I am, and be my aid
Look, where the youngest wren of nine comes.
It should not stand in thy posterity,
Because he doth not feel, feel your power quickly;
Yourself, your queen, your son.
If you will see a pageant truly play'd,
Come, my masters; the duchess, I tell you, expects
Here is to Caesar!
We are resolved, my lord.
together with the common lag of people--what is
Ay me, it is my husband! Witness you,
By the stern brow and waspish action
lief you would tell me of a mess of porridge.
Enter KING HENRY, BEDFORD, and GLOUCESTER
We bid be quiet when we hear it cry;
rascally sheep-biter come by some notable shame?
Yet are the king's; and, till my soul forsake,
But one thing to rejoice and solace in,
Re-enter CHARMIAN and Messenger
Sir, I am a poor friend of yours, that loves you.
No, by my soul; I never in my life
many of us: that we did, we did for the best; and
What should I don this robe, and trouble you?
Now, say, Chatillon, what would France with us?
Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell,
he loveth. Assist me, some extemporal god of rhyme,
Sweet sister, let me live:
in company of the Marquis of Montferrat?
The good humour is to steal at a minute's rest.
O, welcome, father!
Hath the count all this intelligence?
Most meet
Go sleep, and hear us.
you know, in his rages, and his furies, and his
O, musicians, because my heart itself plays 'My
And see the ambush of our friends be strong;
Ay, my good lord.
Who are the rest?
[Reads]  'By the Lord, madam, you wrong me, and the
In russet yeas and honest kersey noes:
servitude: I will no longer endure it, though yet I
O'er him whom heaven created for thy ruler.
My Icarus, my blossom, in his pride.
Marry, then, sweet wag, when thou art king, let not
Even to the guilt or the purgation.
With promise of high pay and great rewards:
Let's stand close, and behold him.
We pray the gods he may deserve your loves.
So please your majesty,
Old Cassius still!
Come, we will walk. There's other of our friends
I am: what must we understand by this?
Whereof we have record, trial did draw
How to get clear of all the debts I owe.
mystery; you would sound me from my lowest note to
O, he's returned; and as pleasant as ever he was.
The peers agreed, and Henry was well pleased
Knocking within
exceptions to your ill hours.
The venom clamours of a jealous woman
So am I driven by breath of her renown
Chickens, the way which they stoop'd eagles; slaves,
Makes us hear something.
Or else my heart concealing it will break,
They shall have my horses; but I'll make them pay;
Who, every word by all my wit being scann'd,
within, sir. I will construe to them whence you
Come, let's away. When, Caius, Rome is thine,
Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears;
I kiss'd it; and it gave me present hunger
Will have a wild trick of his ancestors.
What, will he come?
Opening on Neptune with fair blessed beams,
'Tis very true: O wise and upright judge!
fourscore ducats!
Richard yet lives, hell's black intelligencer,
As strongly as the conscience does within,
Good now, sit down, and tell me, he that knows,
important, tell him there is measure in every thing
shall have no more eyes to see withal than a cat.
Besides two thousand ducats by the year
If presently you will take horse with him,
One of thy eyes and thy cheek's side struck off!
Shake off the golden slumber of repose.
Like a drowned man, a fool and a mad man: one
An appetite that I am sick withal,
And heap'd sedition on his crown at home.
Enter QUEEN GERTRUDE and POLONIUS
O, give me pardon,
Sowter will cry upon't for all this, though it be as
substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
I'll weringly to him: to gain his colour
SCENE I. The sea-coast.
Why, he but sleeps:
Enter a Guardsman
Exeunt
To new-store France with bastard warriors.
O fair return of banish'd majesty!
AEneas is a-field;
O eastern star!
If not, I'll leave him to the officer.
behind you, sir, like an evil angel, and bid you
Would so offend a virgin, and extort
Think you I am no stronger than my sex,
Why, man, he doth bestride the narrow world
thigh: if the man were alive and would deny it,
words plain, 'Sirrah, knock me here, rap me here,
For thou set'st on thy wife.
Thou wast born of woman
Throw thy glove,
When he might act the woman in the scene,
Thy name is Gaultier, being rightly sounded.
Here comes Baptista: set your countenance, sir.
Kneels
Thy words are but as thoughts; therefore, be bold.
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH, SIR ANDREW, and FABIAN
O that I served that lady
With hearts create of duty and of zeal.
cook. I speak to thee plain soldier: If thou canst
past watching.
Messina, and one that knows the law, go to; and a
Seek him, and bring him hither.
To knit in her their best perfections.
Right well, dear madam. By your patience,
Tribunes, and me, a poor competitor.
For love is crowned with the prime
But I disdain'd it, and did scorn to fly:
I doubt whether their legs be worth the sums
Fetch forth the stocks!
Your plainness and your shortness please me well.
But, for all this, thou shalt have as many dolours
Why, this is a passing merry one and goes to
And when in music we have spent an hour,
My lord, I will not.
Words, life and all, old Lancaster hath spent.
To do what? to do what? let her say
Soft! here he comes: I must dissemble it.
Myself, Belarius, that am Morgan call'd,
To tell my love unto his dumb deaf trunk,
gentleman but gardeners, ditchers, and grave-makers:
Will you with free and unconstrained soul
against the law of arms: 'tis as arrant a piece of
Leaving free things and happy shows behind:
The true succeeders of each royal house,
But death hath snatch'd my husband from mine arms,
That we may call it early by and by.
sweet Rose, my dear Rose, be merry.
Cannot be!
Out on thee, villain! wherefore dost thou mad me?
Zeal and obedience he still bore your grace,
Let's follow, Gertrude:
Exit
You will be welcome with this intelligence, Nicanor.
And ride upon their backs; he trod the water,
See you these clothes? say you see them not and
By sick interpreters, once weak ones, is
O Silius, Silius,
The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.
Can this be so? did Angelo so leave her?
flatterer: he that beguiled you in a plain
'It is as hard to come as for a camel
To Ireland, Poictiers, Anjou, Touraine, Maine,
you and her husband entreat her to splinter; and, my
We'll no more meet, no more see one another:
And that to-morrow you will bring it home.
Here they'll be, man. Some o' their plants are
Alarum. Enter YORK
Unreasonable creatures feed their young;
Caesarion, whom they call my father's son,
I know not what you mean by that; but, I am sure,
Transformed with their fear; who swore they saw
Flourish. Enter the DUKE of Florence, BERTRAM, PAROLLES, Soldiers, Drum, and Trumpets
O, thou, whose wounds become hard-favour'd death,
The deserts of Bohemia?
I'll jest a twelvemonth in an hospital.
Let me commend thee first to those that shall
So bees with smoke and doves with noisome stench
Who then but English Henry will be lord
Alas, poor hurt fowl! now will he creep into sedges.
A strange one as ever I looked on: I cannot get him
Die in the fall. But 'tis not so with me:
I will not reason what is meant hereby,
I train'd thy brethren to that guileful hole
Poor man! I know he would not be a wolf,
For thou hast done a charitable deed.
To wind about my love with circumstance;
Before the dew of evening fall, shall fleet,
And on them shalt thou ease thy angry heart.
And strike her home by force, if not by words:
As I in justice and true right express it.
wore three-pile; but now I am out of service:
My lord, your nobles, jealous of your absence,
of England?
And mine, with my heart in't; and now farewell
ere your grandsires had nails on their toes, yoke you
angled for mine eyes, caught the water though not
Of disobedience, or unduteous title,
Now happy he whose cloak and cincture can
And not to kiss you. A health, gentlemen!
O, this is trim!
we'll have flesh for holidays, fish for
When they are bound to serve, love and obey.
For England his approaches makes as fierce
The love of Valentine and love Sir Thurio?
And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
You great benefactors, sprinkle our society with
When adverse foreigners affright my towns
Who tells me true, though in his tale lie death,
So cunning and so young is wonderful.
Enter APEMANTUS and Fool
ANTIPHOLUS
These people saw the chain about his neck.
Of vapours that did seem to strangle him.
Durst wag his tongue in censure. When these suns--
Good my lord, be cured
Upon advice, hath drawn my love from her;
True swains in love shall in the world to come
Biron they call him; but a merrier man,
You wrong me, sir, thus still to haunt my house:
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY VIII and Guard
I dream'd a dream to-night.
fellow! Go thy way, Hector! There's a brave man,
Hang out our banners on the outward walls;
Exeunt all but IAGO and CASSIO
That an invisible instinct should frame them
Suddenly taken; and hath sent post haste
And, being anger'd, puffs away from thence,
Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
Enter CAPULET
Even to our ocean, to our great King John.
Of rich and exquisite form; their values great;
Still quiring to the young-eyed cherubins;
For if he'll do as he is made to do,
make them friends. Nay, I can gleek upon occasion.
And when I mount, alive may I not light,
Do thou so much as dig the grave for him:
Enter CELIA and ROSALIND
That never relish'd of a base descent.
When nights are longest there: I'll take my leave.
Of that there's none, or little.
open your chaps again.
I have bargained for the joint,--
wenches' song, that he would not stir his pettitoes
Till either death hath closed these eyes of mine
Hold, here's more gold for thee.
But not a minute, king, that thou canst give:
than any man in all Venice. His reasons are as two
Weak men must fall, for heaven still guards the right.
My lords, if not for any parts in him--
If the scorn of your bright eyne
What noise? what shriek is this?
I wish it might, for now I am your fool.
Good mine host o' the Garter, a word with you.
'Tis now the king's, and call'd Whitehall.
A callat
suspect my years? O that he were here to write me
Beyond the infinite and boundless reach
God should be so obdurate as yourselves,
I'll tell you in a little. The great duke
The hand more instrumental to the mouth,
Pardon me, if you please; if n ot, I, pleased
Thither go these news, as fast as horse can
Thou damned and luxurious mountain goat,
enough. Who can speak broader than he that has no
At thy affections, which do hold a wing
A buck-basket!
in reputation and profit, was better both ways.
As far as I could ken thy chalky cliffs,
sea-sick, and himself little better, extremity of
And ne'er a true one.
To feed for aye her ramp and flames of love;
On his shoulder, and his; her face o' fire
I care not for that neither, because I love crusts.
Through the sharp hawthorn blows the cold wind.
Well, stand aside. 'Fore God, they are both in a
Deserved this hearing--bid 'em send o' the instant
Sir John Bracy from your father; you must to the
Bethink yourself wherein you may have offended
I have yielded:
So strangely in one piece.
Is with a mighty power landed at Milford,
My Lord Chatillon may from England bring,
AEdiles, seize him!
I do not sleep: I see, I hear, I speak;
And get our jewels and our wealth together,
That had not God, for some strong purpose, steel'd
warning: the deputy cannot abide a whoremaster: if
I would not, Cassius; yet I love him well.
beat us out of it, it is yours; if you fall in
My Lord of Winchester, I know your mind;
Good morrow, masters; put your torches out:
Why, the night gone by.
Nay, by the mass, that he did not; he beat him most
melancholy man.
I'll know your business, Harry, that I will.
If your pure maidens fall into the hand
May pierce the head of the great combatant
Say that before Ascension-day at noon
Reads
And certain stars shot madly from their spheres,
But, by the grace of God, and Hume's advice,
That, all-amazed, the priest let fall the book;
Falstaff do in the days of villany? Thou seest I
There was no winter in't; an autumn 'twas
A friend! what friend? your name, I pray you, friend?
And you too, sir.
Even on that altar where we swore to you
thither will I invite the duke and all's contented
A simple countryman, that brought her figs:
charge of foot; and I know his death will be a
That face of his I do remember well;
fool hath much pined away.
Fathers that wear rags
First, give me trust, the count he is my husband,
not who knew it
Heart's discontent and sour affliction
to reserve. But this is from my commission: I will
But--dost thou hear?--most bloody.
Flying between the cold moon and the earth,
Poor queen and son, your labour is but lost;
He hath not fail'd to pester us with message,
And he first took exceptions at this badge,
Even for that our love of old, I prithee,
That were to blow at fire in hope to quench it;
Name her not now, sir; she's a deadly theme.
be seen through the lion's neck: and he himself
ACT V
No, I warrant you; I will not adventure
do any man's heart good to hear me; I will roar,
will buy with you, sell with you, talk with you,
you no song, forester, for this purpose?
Enter CASSIO
Put them in secret holds, both Barnardine and Claudio:
Of my alleged reasons, drive this forward:
Enter DESDEMONA, EMILIA, IAGO, RODERIGO, and Attendants
Therefore I'll make him sure; yea, and I'll swear I
The attribute to awe and majesty,
Brother Antony,--
finds it so.
Amen.
Corn for the rich men only: with these shreds
it a match, and I doubt not but to fashion it, if
When I bestrid thee in the wars and took
Is all too wanton and too full of gawds
my comfort is, that old age, that ill layer up of
ANTIPHOLUS
I am unarm'd; forego this vantage, Greek.
Watch thou and wake when others be asleep,
Exeunt
but his lackey: 'tis a hooded valour; and when it
Drawing all things to it. I'll go in and weep,--
is more than the salt; the hair that covers the wit
My ever-gentle cousin, welcome hither.
I'll keep you company. Will you along?
If ancient sorrow be most reverend,
First, who think you the most desertless man to be
Exit Provost
Thou hast repeal'd, a second time receive
b, spelt backward, with the horn on his head?
To sounds confused; behold the threaden sails,
And tapers burn'd to bedward!
Enough to stifle such a villain up.
I know not that; but such a handkerchief--
a temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it
The secret'st man of blood. What is the night?
Exceedingly well read, and profited
This prison where I live unto the world:
you'll have your nephews neigh to you; you'll have
Repair'd with double riches of content.
Augurs and understood relations have
Why answer not the double majesties
I saw him down; thrice up again and fighting;
the loins, and men by the legs: when a man's
born! I knew thou wouldst be his death. O, poor
I was seven of the nine days out of the wonder
Why, is not this better now than groaning for love?
And therefore is the glorious planet Sol
Equal with wondering: what of her ensues
The sword of Orleans hath not made me smart;
Not honestly, my lord; but so covertly that no
I have got strength of limit. Now, my liege,
Enter PISANIO and IACHIMO
Unsheathe your sword, and dub him presently.
what is this quintessence of dust? man delights not
But, hark, I hear the footing of a man.
And therefore banish'd--is a creature such
He plough'd her, and she cropp'd.
Nothing but odds with England: to that end,
With eggs, sir?
Why should calamity be full of words?
away, away! if you will measure your lubber's
What will your grace have done with Margaret?
Remaineth none but mad-brain'd Salisbury;
Thy stones with lime and hair knit up in thee.
What makes your admiration?
Made love to Nedar's daughter, Helena,
Of whose true-fix'd and resting quality
From lowest place when virtuous things proceed,
Whence camest thou, worthy thane?
O, let me entreat thee cease. Give me thy hand,
Enter MERCUTIO, BENVOLIO, Page, and Servants
Passion, I see, is catching; for mine eyes,
And hurl the name of husband in my face
'Tis this slave;--
If the first that did the edict infringe
He shall think, by the letters that thou wilt drop,
Ay, four, in buckram suits.
And this shall seem, as partly 'tis, their own,
Between our Ilium and where she resides,
The praise of it by telling, you must know,
Than is my deed to my most painted word:
If she dares trust me with her little babe,
And he is welcome. What! is this the man?
That you do think you are not what you are.
And never could maintain his part but in the force
We'll all present ourselves, dis-horn the spirit,
How now, my lord! why do you keep alone,
Where America, the Indies?
Well said, fairy Hugh.
'Tis he, that villain Romeo.
It comes upon me. Art thou any thing?
That she with Cassio hath the act of shame
A prophet I, madam; and I speak the truth the next
To pinch her by the hand, and, on that token,
Since you are tongue-tied and so loath to speak,
That I may strike at Athens. I'll cheer up
Some loving friends convey the emperor hence,
That shall she, marry; I remember it well.
Breeds him and makes him of his bed-chamber,
To give away thy land,
I humbly set it at your will; but, for my mistress,
And from her derogate body never spring
His treasons will sit blushing in his face,
This field shall hold me; and so hold your vow:
Enter a Servant
Have you long sojourned there?
Have I not reason, beldams as you are,
Who stood equivalent with mighty kings:
Alack, what noise is this?
I will discharge thee ere I go from thee:
And push us from our stools: this is more strange
To save your brother from the sacrifice;
Were there in arms, they would be as a call
The quality of her passion shall require,
Yield: come before my father. Light, ho, here!
What makes this change?
By this we gather
We have been up and down to seek thee; for we are
And for my sister and her princely sons,
True;
Exit with his train. Flourish of cornets
And oftentimes have purposed to forbid
[Aside]	How should this be?
ACT III
SCENE III. A street near the Capitol.
If I think so, I think the same of you.
See him pluck Aufidius down by the hair,
Said he not so? or did I dream it so?
The doctrine of ill-doing, nor dream'd
When all that is within him does condemn
Ay, and a shrewd unhappy gallows too.
Any thing on him; for he hath a witchcraft
[Beating him]  You whoreson cur!
When thou hast broke it in so dear degree?
Of Ragozine, more like to Claudio?
Is the next way to draw new mischief on.
O brother, help me with thy fainting hand--
A creature of the queen's, Lady Anne Bullen.'
I'll see their trial first. Bring in the evidence.
And rest your gentle head upon her lap,
tempts me saying to me 'Gobbo, Launcelot Gobbo, good
orthography, as to speak dout, fine, when he should
A prosperous gentleman; and to be king
Let them from forth a sawpit rush at once
Was fast belock'd in thine; this is the body
See, they have shut him in.
Your uncle York is join'd with Bolingbroke,
An enemy to my son. How now, Pisanio!
yourself. But indeed, if you find him not within
Exit
I know. Thus far can I praise him; he is of a noble
And if thou want'st a cord, the smallest thread
Were thinly scatter'd, to make up a show.
What warlike voice,
Turn up on your right hand at the next turning, but,
Pronounce thee a gross lout, a mindless slave,
At the duke's oak we meet.
you shall tell me where in the forest you live.
You brace of warlike brothers, welcome hither.
that I have seen, some shall see.
Or senseless speaking or a speaking such
O heaven, O earth, bear witness to this sound
They're busy within; you were best knock louder.
Infect thy sap and live on thy confusion.
He must be buried with his brethren.
Exeunt
And for achievement offer us his ransom.
Certainly
And end his being: that done, he lets me go:
Take't; 'tis yours. What is't?
Nay, but I know 'tis so: I saw him arrested, saw
And, may I say to thee, this pride of hers,
Far be the thought of this from Henry's heart,
When what's not meet, but what must be, was law,
ACT I
When black-faced Clifford shook his sword at him;
your honour.
Like a great sea-mark, standing every flaw,
And wear it for an honour in thy cap
How the English, in the suburbs close intrench'd,
Of half that worth as those your swords, made rich
So shall we stay, mocking intended game,
For we would give much, to use violent thefts,
O that my prayers could such affection move!
Embrace and love this man.
Who, newly in the seat, that it may know
[Aside]  She was, indeed, a pedler's daughter, and
Seeing too much sadness hath congeal'd your blood,
Why, how now, cousin! wherefore sink you down?
Against infection and the hand of war,
When after that the holy rites are ended,
That as a waist doth girdle you about,
her reputation, her marriage-vow, and a thousand
But immortality attends the former.
Thou that didst bear the key of all my counsels,
with scorn, write to him that I love him?'
And will he not come again?
Fourscore and upward, not an hour more nor less;
No.
And you shall see 'tis purchased by the weight;
As you think meet. Most wretched queen!
Thou poisonous slave, got by the devil himself
ANTIPHOLUS
Enter CLAUDIO, BEATRICE, HERO, and LEONATO
Nay, master, both in mind and in my shape.
Sirrah, is this letter true?
To say 'King Richard:' alack the heavy day
And laboured all I could to do him right;
When Signior Sooth here does proclaim a peace,
Scotland hath foisons to fill up your will.
Why should you think that I should woo in scorn?
Let them come in.
What, wilt thou hear some music,
His words come from his mouth, ours from our breast:
Cool and congeal again to what it was.
Which Rome reputes to be a heinous sin,
Why, man, how black?
Where is my prince, the Dauphin?
The tender leaves of hopes; to-morrow blossoms,
And--how we know not--all clapp'd under hatches;
There's one thing wanting, which I doubt not but
From giving reins and spurs to my free speech;
That's the way; for women are light at midnight.
He rather means to lodge you in the field,
Under the earth.
Whoa ho! ho, father Page!
Yet bend not all the harm upon yourself;
Thou shalt have charge and sovereign trust herein.
man i' the world.
That's like my brother's fault: if it confess
And what he craves.
said he then?
Would I were young for your sake, Mistress Anne!
Farewell, sweet masters both; I must be gone.
Peace! the peal begins.
Last night of all,
Ay, ay, so strives the woodcock with the gin.
She sat like patience on a monument,
And in her most unmitigable rage,
And good supporters are you.
And yet not fall; so light is vanity.
Aside
With leaden legs and batty wings doth creep:
Enter a second Messenger
Ajax: it kills sheep; it kills me, I a sheep:
With hair up-staring,--then like reeds, not hair,--
Je ne doute point d'apprendre, par la grace de Dieu,
Hadst thou been his mother, thou couldst have
which pitifully disaster the cheeks.
And rich: here is a water, look ye.
And these are not fairies? I was three or four
Some good man bear him carefully from hence;
make your two affirmatives why then, the worse for
That we may bring you something on the way.
Well, well.
Contagious blastments are most imminent.
From any dram of mercy.
To murder me?
Dies
Exeunt Lords
To keep them from uncivil outrages.
Why come you not? what! multitudes, and fear?
He ne'er pays after-debts, take it before;
Like poison given to work a great time after,
Upon this island as a spy, to win it
The king of England; when we know the king.
of our way, I say.
Is nought but bitterness. Now, Roderigo,
That's as much as to say, they are fools that marry:
Teem with new monsters, whom thy upward face
Art thou his friend?
That's more to me than my wetting: yet this is your
All sworn and honourable:--they induced to steal it!
The ground's the lowest, and we are half way there.
many nicer needs; the last was the greatest, but
I would thou grew'st unto the shores o' the haven,
presently to Saint Luke's: there, at the moated
O, I am mock'd,
that you have said.
Re-enter ANTIOCHUS
give thee leave to die: but if thou diest before I
That have beheld me give away myself
With all the strength and armour of the mind,
I must go victual Orleans forthwith.
As it on earth hath been thy servant still.
That caves and womby vaultages of France
No, nor never shall do in such a place as this, she
Your noble mother: and, as I hear, my lord,
Kings are earth's gods; in vice their law's
Shalt have the air at freedom: for a little
If thus thou vanishest, thou tell'st the world
Most generous and free from all contriving,
That, rubbing the poor itch of your opinion,
Did that they did in envy of great Caesar;
God give me joy to wear it! for my heart is
That does affect it. Once more, fare you well.
Exeunt
'Twas full of darnel; do you like the taste?
Was stay'd by accident, and yesternight
This music mads me; let it sound no more;
In maiden meditation, fancy-free.
To take on me to keep and kill thy heart.
Those that I reverence those I fear, the wise:
My wife to France: from whence, set forth in pomp,
I'll show thee the best springs; I'll pluck thee berries;
That after seven years' siege yet Troy walls stand;
'Tis not the roundure of your old-faced walls
O, how I long to have some chat with her!
How shall I know if I do choose the right?
You do amaze her: hear the truth of it.
You need not fear it, sir:
That which but seems unlike: 'tis not impossible
But that slander, sir,
Give me pen and ink. Sirrah, can you with a grace
Mark how he trembles in his ecstasy!
When they do hug him in their melting bosoms.
Go you before, and I will follow you.
And I must pause till it come back to me.
Thus stands it with me: upon a true contract
Lest it see more, prevent it. Out, vile jelly!
Hark, hark! the lark at heaven's gate sings,
Saw you my lord?
And therefore, living hence, did give ourself
Preoccupied with what you rather must do
Will never more break faith advisedly.
Some rise by sin, and some by virtue fall:
basket. Go up; I'll bring linen for him straight.
And bear this work of heaven with patience:
Yea, and I will weep a while longer.
are metamorphosed with a mistress, that, when I look
We sent to thee, to give thy rages balm,
Now, by my seat's right royal majesty,
Fulvia thy wife first came into the field.
May make some stronger head; the which he hearing--
He will deserve more.
Arms, arms, sword, fire! Corruption in the place!
Working so grossly in a natural cause,
The sea's a thief, whose liquid surge resolves
good compass: and now I live out of all order, out
I'll have no wife, Paulina.
By looking back what I have left behind
Subtly hath minister'd to have me dead,
Inconstancy falls off ere it begins.
A sibyl, that had number'd in the world
of; which imports to the kingdom so much
More like a king, more kingly in my thoughts:
Defacing monuments of conquer'd France,
Do not draw back your hand; I'll take no more;
We took him setting of boys' copies.
Why dost thou weep? Canst thou the conscience lack,
age of two and twenty or thereabouts! I am
Will you walk in to see their gossiping?
The gates shut on me, and turn'd weeping out,
DON
Or pile ten hills on the Tarpeian rock,
Then what intends these forces thou dost bring?
To keep that oath were more impiety
Exeunt
SCENE III. Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace.
But mice and rats, and such small deer,
Henry my lord is cold in great affairs,
For who is he, whose chin is but enrich'd
God ye good morrow, gentlemen.
At blow and thrust; even as again they were
Who can be patient in such extremes?
seven year.
you do not use me with that affability as in
All your true followers out.
And brought us thus together?
The grandchild to her blood. But, out, affection!
Robs me of that which not enriches him
The buckles on his breast, reneges all temper,
What an eye she has! methinks it sounds a parley of
Enter MISTRESS PAGE and ROBIN
means to pay Bohemia the visitation which he justly owes him.
Others, like merchants, venture trade abroad,
Then why should they love Edward more than me?
Thine being but a moiety of my grief,
To go about my preparation.
Remain a pinch'd thing; yea, a very trick
ANTIPHOLUS
Shall I say to Caesar
Had been dishabited, and wide havoc made
since I forswore myself at primero. Well, if my
The first and happiest hearers of the town,
I fear 'tis deepest winter in Lord Timon's purse;
Thus have I, Wall, my part discharged so;
What, will the aspiring blood of Lancaster
Indeed, upon my sword, indeed.
handkerchief and rings of his that Paulina knows.
As false, by heaven, as heaven itself is true.
him: if the devil have him not in fee-simple, with
Rapier and dagger.
words, and keeps whole weapons. For Nym, he hath
Exeunt all but MACBETH, and an attendant
Be brought against me at my trial-day!
I'll have done presently.
says, is muddied withal: pray you, sir, use the
That you do bend your eye on vacancy
live cleanly as a nobleman should do.
Spread further.
I ne'er again shall see her. O thou mine heir
Let me thy servant and not sovereign be:
On abjects, orts and imitations,
There will be woe indeed, lords: the sly whoresons
And swear I got them in the Gallia wars.
With no sauce that can be devised to it. I protest
drink it? wherein neat and cleanly, but to carve a
Sweet queen, sweet queen! that's a sweet queen, i' faith.
No; I would tell what 'twere to be a judge,
If they not thought the profits of my death
My mother greets me kindly; is she well?
So that, as clear as is the summer's sun.
This yellow Iachimo, in an hour,--wast not?--
That all particulars of duty know,
A ring; stand round.
To vow, and swear, and superpraise my parts,
Well said, adversity! and what need these tricks?
SCENE I. London. A street leading to the Tower.
Within the guilty closure of thy walls
Subdues me quite. Even till now,
Whose motive, in this case, should stir me most
Otherwhiles the famish'd English, like pale ghosts,
Enter MENELAUS and PARIS, fighting: then THERSITES
Your grace was wont to laugh, is also missing.
What a piece of work is a man! how noble in reason!
Hold your peaces.
In your retirement, I had swinged him soundly.
Enter HELENA and Widow
SCENE I. Rome. Before a gate of the city.
For that 'Forgive our Romans.' O, a kiss
for in the very torrent, tempest, and, as I may say,
Though now we must appear bloody and cruel,
Too heavy for a man that hopes for heaven!
The one of them contains my picture, prince:
Well, lords, the Duke of Lancaster is dead.
And on his father's; we did train him on,
More than a wild exposture to each chance
But that the extreme peril of the case,
[Aside to ISABELLA]
And quick Biron hath plighted faith to me.
She is so hot because the meat is cold;
If wounding, then it was to show my skill,
Whose bosom was my crownet, my chief end,--
I looked for the chalky cliffs, but I could find no
Your goods that lay at host, sir, in the Centaur.
your ladyships, you may see the end; for the best is
A giant traitor!
Have been consider'd and debated on.
example of others. God keep your worship! I wish
Valiant I am.
Have miserable, mad, mistaking eyes.
Proportion'd to our cause, must be as great
The sufferance of our souls, the time's abuse,--
Here do you keep a hundred knights and squires;
Our hearts receive your warnings.
If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not;
'Tis true, to hurt his master, no man else.
Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
And I would give his wife my bauble, sir, to do her service.
Only for wantonness. By my christendom,
What lusty trumpet thus doth summon us?
And there present yourself and your fair princess,
Imperious and impatient of your wrongs,
But are you so much in love as your rhymes speak?
To tender it herself. I undertook it,
In fine, redeem'd I was as I desired.
And not without desert so well reputed.
My wedded lord, I ne'er shall see again,
Can in this desert place buy entertainment,
I was about to say--enjoy your--But
My gracious lord, I'll tell him what you say.
Good morrow, sweet Hal. What says Monsieur Remorse?
To most that teach.
My faith and this the princess I did give:
SCENE IV. A British prison.
O heavens, that they were living both in Naples,
The scene you play were mine. For instance, sir,
To beg of you, kind friends, this coat of worth,
heard the shepherd say, he found the child.
her: that if she love me, I charge her to love
Exeunt
The leperous distilment; whose effect
Madam, we will attend your grace.
Thy other Edward dead, to quit my Edward;
For my part, I'll resign unto your grace
When at Philippi he found Brutus slain.
That I have  fined these bones of mine for ransom?
My husband bids me; now I will unmask.
Makes my past miseries sports: you shall do well,
Herein I see thou lovest me not with the full weight
For in my way it lies. Stars, hide your fires;
And thus far having stretch'd it--here be with them--
That lays strong siege unto this wretch's soul.
This sensible warm motion to become
Ay sir: I, a lost mutton, gave your letter to her,
Bid him suppose some good necessity
Myself, my servant and, I fear me, you:
SCENE IV. York. The ARCHBISHOP'S palace.
To souse annoyance that comes near his nest.
To mend her kissing with!
My dear wife's estimate, her womb's increase,
Exit an Attendant
nay-word, that you may know one another's mind, and
But his performance, as he is now, nothing:
Achilles; Achilles is my lord; I am Patroclus'
She that being anger'd, her revenge being nigh,
If you had won it, certainly you had.
With them they think on? Things without all remedy
Let not my jealousies be your dishonours,
We lost a jewel of her; and our esteem
That shall be rack'd, even to the uttermost,
And half our sailors swallow'd in the flood?
No longer for my flatterer: he is drown'd
that give fools money get themselves a good
O monstrous! eleven buckram men grown out of two!
If, after two days' shine, Athens contain thee,
Away, away! Once more, sweet lords farewell.
They'll be in scarlet straight at any news.
Thou art as wise as thou art beautiful.
I beg this boon, with tears not lightly shed,
To see the wonders of the world abroad,
We must extend our notice. Our dear son,
To the last article: my lord shall never rest;
Saying, the sanguine colour of the leaves
Very gladly.
When he did stand for consul, which he lost
My dear?
To her whose worth makes other worthies nothing;
A man so breathed, that certain he would fight; yea
leave you one o' these days: and I have a rheum
He is wise;
Bear me, good friends, where Cleopatra bides;
Moonshine and Lion are left to bury the dead.
Even to the general all-ending day.
Had squared me to thy counsel! then, even now,
What treason were it to the ransack'd queen,
That is not quickly buzzed into his ears?
He must be told on't, and he shall: the office
Nay, my lord,
All causes shall give way: I am in blood
know'st this,
praiseworthy: and now tell me, how doth your cousin?
And they are often tarred over with the surgery of
How now, Master Brook! Master Brook, the matter
This by Calpurnia's dream is signified.
Exeunt all but PERICLES
Of all perfections that a man may owe,
That he shall soon keep Tybalt company:
Which now goes too free-footed.
Is Caesar with Antonius prized so slight?
Caesar and Antony have ever won
Hugg'd and embraced by the strumpet wind!
is carried into the leaguer of the adversaries, when
If this should blast in proof. Soft! let me see:
What you have underta'en to do in's absence.
Ajax employ'd plucks down Achilles' plumes.
Who does beguile you? who does do you wrong?
Some galled goose of Winchester would hiss:
To see him any more,--cast your good counsels
The very last time we shall speak together:
by't: out with 't! within ten year it will make
Enter MARDIAN
Of me and all that I can make;
Once I encounter'd him, and thus I said:
'Tis no matter! I shall speak as much as thou
As made the things more rich: their perfume lost,
And she shall thank you for't, if e'er you know her.
Troilus now! You shall see Troilus anon.
oaths of him and might not spend them at my pleasure.
Ay, madam, but returns again to-night.
We did, my lord, weeping and commenting
There she appeared indeed; or my reporter devised
And so in me; and so, I think, in all:
Master, some show to welcome us to town.
As this fore-spurrer comes before his lord.
By heaven, I'll hate him everlastingly
I shall beseech him to befriend himself.
Remember, lords, your oaths to Henry sworn,
the gods had made thee poetical.
I kiss'd thee ere I kill'd thee: no way but this;
As fat as butter.
His bounty overplus: the messenger
Not a word with him but a jest.
Have broke their backs with laying manors on 'em
With these you bear already.
Dear sir, forbear.
Then wish me better; I will give you leave.
On more mechanic compliment; I'll leave thee
My worthy lord,
You have congreeted, let it not disgrace me,
Exeunt Goths, with AARON. Flourish within
Than now to bid you hold.
Good sir, speak it to us.
I'll after, more to be revenged on Eglamour
You left poor Henry at the Bishop's palace,
How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
Is rounded with a sleep. Sir, I am vex'd;
To give me conquer'd Egypt for my son,
Hark, the duke's trumpets! I know not why he comes.
I fear'd to show my father Julia's letter,
Not to outsport discretion.
If you have heard your general talk of Rome,
Thy name in arms were now as great as mine!
I did not see your grace: humbly on my knee
I never heard a passion so confused,
I prithee, name the time, but let it not
Now let him speak: 'tis charity to show.
Grandsire, 'tis Ovid's Metamorphoses;
I assure you, there is very excellent services
As thou dost swallow up this good king's blood
And Peter Turph and Henry Pimpernell
Ay, sir, but I am sure I do not; and whatsoever a
your misery increase with your age! I say to you,
Her sceptre so fantastically borne
Your most grave belly was deliberate,
Why, beg, then.
Mean and right poor, for that pure blood of mine
As he hath used of old.
The ruthless flint doth cut my tender feet,
Master, be wise: an if you give it her,
Prerogative of age, crowns, sceptres, laurels,
A day's work in him. What shalt thou expect,
Lie at my mercy all mine enemies:
yours, and therefore the gift the greater.
It signs well, does it not?
O, too much folly is it, well I wot,
Enter FALSTAFF and BARDOLPH
For when no friends are by, men praise themselves.
the hunter, attends thee at the orchard-end:
As waggish boys in game themselves forswear,
His faith, his sweet disaster; with a world
From this day to the ending of the world,
Death, death; O amiable lovely death!
The shame which here it suffers.
fight, you go against the hair of your professions.
Stand up, lord.
Senators,  and C	Weapons, weapons, weapons!
As these before thee thou thyself shalt bleed.
And enterprises of great pith and moment
That you know well: something it is I would,
The dismall'st day is this that e'er I saw,
Having received the punishment before,
What two crowns shall they be?
It may be so: but if he say it is so, he is, in
To allay with some cold drops of modesty
I am not drunk now; I can stand well enough, and
And fearfully did menace me with death,
charitably dispose of any thing, when blood is their
Marry, thou oughtest not to let thy horse wear a
What dost thou with thy best apparel on?
She had her breeding at my father's charge.
Peace, doting wizard, peace! I am not mad.
I have been told so of many: but indeed an old
for though she's as like this as a crab's like an
SCENE III. The French camp near Dover.
And seek to effect it to my uttermost.
And in no sense is meet or amiable.
I had thought, by making this well known unto you,
Blubbering and weeping, weeping and blubbering.
To know my errand, madam.
Gently to hear, kindly to judge, our play.
I'll interrupt his reading.
As she lived peerless,
Therefore Heaven Nature charged
He puts the handkerchief from him; and it drops
So Romeo would, were he not Romeo call'd,
Sir, it is the king's most sweet pleasure and
preposterous estate as we are.
As much to him, else is his thanks too much.
My lord, I have news to tell you.
whence you have studied your questions.
And therefore do we what we are commanded.
And thou art all my child. Towards Florence is he?
But when extremities speak. I have heard you say,
Kate, to conquer the kingdom as to speak so much
And they have nursed this woe, in feeding life;
excellent jests, fire-new from the mint, you should
Of heaven, not me, make an experiment.
a man when King Pepin of France was a little boy, as
you, pardon me; he's a justice of peace in his
Now to 'scape the serpent's tongue,
Brother, take you my land, I'll take my chance.
Freely to render what we have in charge;
Is it no more to be your daughter than
Exit
this world. Here, Robin, an if I die, I give thee
Nay, I know not:
Ay, so we will.
Myself was from Verona banished
that he hath devised in these three chests of gold,
Bid her alight,
Lust and rank thoughts, hers, hers; revenges, hers;
This same shall go.
Peruse the traders, gaze upon the buildings,
Will you sit down?
How long is't ago, Jack, since thou sawest thine own knee?
Enter BUCKINGHAM
We sent unto the Temple, unto his chamber;
I wore his sword Philippan.
park with the rational hind Costard: she deserves well.
Drawn on with torture.
That living wrought me such exceeding trouble.
Whence are you, sir? Has the porter his eyes in his
him, SURREY, bearing the rod of silver with
LUCIUS, MARCUS, and the others descend
[Aside to PROSPERO]  Sir, all this service
Enter the city, clip your wives, your friends,
Poor sick Fidele!
And bring all Cyprus comfort!
Govern'd a wolf, who, hang'd for human slaughter,
We twain will go into his highness' tent.
Before not dreamt of.
Enter, on one side, DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as before; on the other, ELBOW, and Officers with POMPEY
As from a conduit with three issuing spouts,
And so may I, blind fortune leading me,
Whom son I dare not call; thou art too base
South-west.
Will easily be granted. You, my lord,
Good friar, let's hear it.
And then I stole all courtesy from heaven,
And, by this virgin palm now kissing thine
ACT II
Titus, I am incorporate in Rome,
And not bethink me straight of dangerous rocks,
Lorenzo, certain, and my love indeed,
To curb the will of the nobility:
Let me be counted serviceable. How look I,
Never came poison from so sweet a place.
universal world, or in France, or in England!
To find out practises of cunning hell,
Pray, give me favour, sir. This cunning cardinal
but they think we are too dear: the leanness that
If I do die before thee prithee, shroud me
'tis not convenient you should be cozened. Fare you well.
bottom were as deep as hell, I should down. I had
Dost thou know her?
Therefore, to speak, and to avoid the first,
To hear the wooden dialogue and sound
SCENE I. Before an alehouse on a heath.
Despairing of his own arm's fortitude,
Ten, my lord.
Why, now I see there's mettle in thee, and even from
No, sir; I think the meat wants that I have.
What, what! the lustful sons of Tamora
indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he is the card or
again. The king is coming.
Must I speak now?
When right with right wars who shall be most right!
Master, if ever I said loose-bodied gown, sew me in
'Proud,' and 'I thank you,' and 'I thank you not;'
Who, though they are of monstrous shape, yet, note,
Charles Duke of Orleans, nephew to the king;
And prove it in thy feeling. Heaven mend all!
Ay, there, look grim as hell!
And crows are fatted with the murrion flock;
My heart is turn'd to stone: and while 'tis mine,
Whether you had not sometime in your life
If we may pass, we will; if we be hinder'd,
That you are now a maid. Thus then in brief:
That play'd on her ripe lip, seem'd not to know
Stand close awhile, for here comes one in haste.
Many sharp reasons to defeat the law.
Your serpent of Egypt is bred now of your mud by the
The gods assist you!
Your worship is deceived; the gown is made
Canst thou not guess wherefore she plies thee thus?
And all the currents of a heady fight.
Indeed, I was their tutor to instruct them:
A royal nobleness: I must embrace thee:
Of palsied eld; and when thou art old and rich,
What say you to the lady? Love's not love
In them a wilder nature than the business
There's for thy pains.
Isabel,
Indeed, madam?
An unknown opposite; thou art not vanquish'd,
My custom always of the afternoon,
What danger or what sorrow can befall thee,
is not true. The knight, Sir John, is there; and, I
Disappears
If this were played upon a stage now, I could
I know him not, but I have heard of him;
is worn, the jest may remain after the wearing sole singular.
to't like French falconers, fly at any thing we see:
8. A canopy borne by four of the Cinque-ports;
I know none such, my lord.
Threescore and ten I can remember well:
and, I think, no other treasure to give your
I dare presume, sweet prince, he thought no harm.
cold brook,
And do not say 'tis superstition, that
Falstaff here?
To my inheritance of free descent.
All's hush'd as midnight yet.
Yet, since it is but green, it should be put
would insinuate with thee but to make thee sigh.
To-morrow, good Sir Michael, is a day
I say you shall.
Under whose warrant I impeach thy wrong
Thy name well fits thy faith, thy faith thy name.
With carrion men, groaning for burial.
And what say you to this? Percy, Northumberland,
Offended us you have not, but the king.
but I am not to say it is a sea, for it is now the
Are all too dear for me: lie they upon thy hand,
Bishop, farewell: shield thee from Warwick's frown;
For parting us,--O, is it all forgot?
And have the money by our father lent
And we will mend thy wages. I like this place.
Or, as it were, the pageants of the sea,
Being of no power to make his wishes good:
Nor how to use your brothers brotherly,
O perjured woman! They are both forsworn:
[Within]  O, good my lord, I would speak a word with you!
And seek for grace. What a thrice-double ass
And turn you all your hatred now on me?
Together, have one dust, yet reverence,
Egregious murderer, thief, any thing
I know not what may fall; I like it not.
To prove him, in defending of myself,
To see me first, as I have now. Pisanio! man!
Nor doth he of himself know them for aught
From change of fortune. Why this spade? this place?
The English power is near, led on by Malcolm,
Enter RODERIGO
Cannot vouchsafe this burthen,'tis too weak
And in it are the Lords of York, Berkeley, and Seymour;
Hold, villain!
Treason! treason!
Will we take throughly.
You shall have ransom. Let me have surgeons;
This unhair'd sauciness and boyish troops,
On: those that think it is unlawful business
The enemy of all your graces lives:
You minion, you, are these your customers?
Then westward-ho! Grace and good disposition
there are certain condolements, certain vails. I
process-server, a bailiff; then he compassed a
Mistress Ford, your sorrow hath eaten up my
Didst break that vow; and with thy treacherous blade
Nor scar that whiter skin of hers than snow,
I think
Ay, but that fool knows not himself.
But comforts we despise; our size of sorrow,
With this unprofitable woe!
Nor is not, sure.
Laertes, you shall hear them. Leave us.
For all the treasure that thine uncle owes:
Some other is more fit.
There is no woman's sides
Where how he did prevail I shame to speak,
I'll make you quiet. What, cheerly, my hearts!
We please to have it grow. Cheque thy contempt:
Denounced against thee, are all fall'n upon thee;
We should have found a bloody day of this.
youth, to skip o'er the meshes of good counsel the
From him the native and true challenger.
I do desire it with all my heart; and I hope it is
The augurer tells me we shall have news to-night.
My grandsire, well advised, hath sent by me
Kinsmen of mine, three at the least, that have
The ambassador is silenced?
But durst not tempt a minister of honour,
Exeunt COSTARD and JAQUENETTA
The prince your son, with mere conceit and fear
Ay, there's the villany.
boy's play here, I can tell you.
I know you not.
Come, come, take it up.
To be your regent in the realm of France.
Enter CATESBY
I do protest I never heard of it;
Exit
Praising the proud disdainful shepherdess
Further this act of grace: and from this hour
And I'll corrupt her manners, stain her beauty;
Whose tenors and particular effects
When shrill-tongued Fulvia scolds. The messengers!
We'll leave a proof, by that which we will do,
It needs not, nor it boots thee not, proud queen,
John. Unless you go out disguised--
O grim-look'd night! O night with hue so black!
Into a strumpet's fool: behold and see.
I shall not find myself so apt to die:
See, see the pining malady of France;
Stay not for the love of Edward, but the crown.
the sensible Benedick's head?
This heavy-headed revel east and west
Of the good queen, but the sharp thorny points
For the repealing of my banish'd brother?
sake, to make no more noise with it.
I would not part a bachelor from the priest.
Ourselves to end ourselves.
Pluck from the memory a rooted sorrow,
Christian burial.
Why, for that too.
That Henry born at Monmouth should win all
I am sorry my integrity should breed,
Which, like the toad, ugly and venomous,
Worthy Macbeth, we stay upon your leisure.
Thy mind to her is now as low as were
I come to wive it wealthily in Padua;
And thy no greater father.
now my foes tell me plainly I am an ass: so that by
And turn his sleep to wake.
That is the very defect of the matter, sir.
Where one but goes abreast: keep then the path;
Poor breathing orators of miseries!
Commotions, uproars, with a general taint
to master Jew's?
And let him be no kinsman to my liege,
To Lacedaemon did my land extend.
Here, as I point my sword, the sun arises,
Which sleeps, and never palates more the dug,
the Egyptians in their fog.
is that he will steal himself into a man's favour and
Than your consent gives strength to make it fly.
SCENE II. A room of state in the castle.
thy quiddities? what a plague have I to do with a
And her troth plight,
I may disjoin my hand, but not my faith.
What's this, what's this? Is this her fault or mine?
As hating thee, are rising up in arms:
Wash they his wounds with tears: mine shall be spent,
May now provoke them to.
him.
Became two spouts: the fury spent, anon
Enter BEATRICE
pretty one; a very pretty one: sure, some 'scape:
let him roar again.'
I likewise hear that Valentine is dead.
Though angel on the outward side!
Have patience, madam: there's no doubt his majesty
more in your respect.
Let me dispute with thee of thy estate.
In vain! his service done
For, by this light, whereby I see thy beauty,
nothing so fitly as to a whale; a' plays and
purpose, courage and valour, this night show it: if
safety: you have been a great thief by sea.
Richard except, those whom we fight against
Many a bounteous year must be employ'd
The partner of your bed. Methinks I see
the idle husewife with me this afternoon.
And leave out thee? stay, dog, for thou shalt hear me.
We must follow the leaders.
In thrilling region of thick-ribbed ice;
others, to taste their valour: belike this is a man
I'll lug the guts into the neighbour room.
would my master had Mistress Anne; or I would
[Aside]             To be sure of that,
And these breed honour: that is honour's scorn,
That Henry, sole possessor of my love,
Singing
Suppose, my lords, he did it unconstrain'd,
But cried 'Good seaman!' to the sailors, galling
Let him die: sheathe thy impatience, throw cold
That my keen knife see not the wound it makes,
To send such peevish tokens to a king.
This is a trick to put me from my suit:
A space whose every cubit
God save your majesty!
Over-roasted rather; ready long ago.
Exit
My brother Gloucester, plain well-meaning soul,
it were his; but, in respect of that, I would
Thou hast mistaken his letter. Come, lords, away.
My heart and hands thou hast at once subdued.
Is this the government of Britain's isle,
What a block art thou, that thou canst not! My
Are still together, who twin, as 'twere, in love
As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
In spite of your heart, I think; alas, poor heart!
So Fulvia told me.
As cheap as lies, he sold the blood and labour
Thou canst help time to furrow me with age,
Yourself, held precious in the world's esteem,
Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters,
When you are call'd, return. Now, the Lord help,
Who doth permit the base contagious clouds
dashed out with a Grecian club; yet he did what he
spirit, which you have not, a beard neglected,
Asses, fools, dolts! chaff and bran, chaff and bran!
That dog, that had his teeth before his eyes,
But that her flight prevented it, she had
And to procure safe-conduct from Agamemnon.
was never merry world in England since gentlemen came up.
Why, my negation hath no taste of madness.
And, by that knot, looks proudly o'er the crown,
Achilles shall have word of this intent;
And brother Clarence, and you, brother Gloucester,
I am weak with toil, yet strong in appetite.
Since they love men in arms as well as beds.
son of a whore fight for a whore, he tempts judgment:
Enter CAPULET in his gown, and LADY CAPULET
The hearts of all that he did angle for;
Make such unconstant children of ourselves,
if I would think my heart out of thinking, that you
By my troth, I will speak my conscience of the king:
The providence that's in a watchful state
Or I have no observance.
And welcome, all: although the cheer be poor,
We write in water. May it please your highness
and the right wife; otherwise 'tis light, and not
If thou hadst fear'd to break an oath by Him,
Exeunt
Question enrages him. At once, good night:
If thou hadst drunk to him, 't had been a kindness
I beseech you, sir, look in this gentleman's face.
robes, burning, burning. If thou wert any way
And graceless traitor to her loving lord?
And he ended the market.
But, good lieutenant, is your general wived?
Not all the water in the rough rude sea
I'll slit the villain's nose, that would have sent
Been sworn my soldier, bidding me depend
Antony,
Never harm,
'Tis he. God and Saint Stephen give you good den:
Enter VALENTINE
And further, I have learn'd,
May, even in their wives' and children's sight,
That for thy mother's fault art thus exposed
That ever I have felt.
ACT I
On them to took and practise by myself.
We all stand up against the spirit of Caesar;
And be a carrion monster like thyself:
About your years, my lord.
A fuller blast ne'er shook our battlements:
Stay, ho! and let us hear Mark Antony.
the duke's name; his wife, Baptista: you shall see
The better to denote her to the doctor,
This unprevailing woe, and think of us
To this same place, to this same monument.
And corresponsive and fulfilling bolts,
Twenty-three days
Against the blown rose may they stop their nose
Nay, he will do it. 'Tis a goodly credit for you.
Nay you must call me Rosalind. Come, sister, will you go?
And lay this Angiers even to the ground;
That go before it.
What says the golden chest? ha! let me see:
If I should pay your worship those again,
second edition: he will print them, out of doubt;
I had rather seal my lips, than, to my peril,
Are you his brother?
Moreover, thou hast put them in prison; and because
That in your chambers gave you chastisement?
They shall not live within this world, I swear,
Mass, thou lovedst plums well, that wouldst
Ay, we may march in England or in France,
And by those claim their greatness, not by blood.
Heigh-ho!
ear-kissing arguments?
Trinculo, keep a good tongue in your head: if you
Give it an understanding, but no tongue:
obstruction in this: and the end,--what should
To-morrow, and to-morrow, and to-morrow,
Return to her, and fifty men dismiss'd?
And that which rather thou dost fear to do
And all this courtesy! The strain of man's bred out
Between who?
See better, Lear; and let me still remain
Your heart's desires be with you!
purchase, as I am a true man.
poem unlimited: Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor
As if we kept a fair here! Where are these porters,
Although by his sight his sin be multiplied.
Even from this instant, banish him our city,
There shalt thou know thy charge; and there receive
Was in the mouth of every sucking babe;
There's no harm done.
Shall it for shame be spoken in these days,
What says your highness to my just demand?
Sleep shall neither night nor day
O, sir, Lucentio slipp'd me like his greyhound,
Amen.
I hope not; I had as lief bear so much lead.
Shouldst have kept one to thyself, for I mean to
Even in the lovely garnish of a boy.
Not Romeo, prince, he was Mercutio's friend;
That late broke from the Duke of Exeter,
'Tis a shrewd doubt, though it be but a dream.
a heavy case, your purse in a light; yet you see how
head and a capon; the which if I do not carve most
If then one is, or hath, or means to be,
Exeunt
Search Windsor Castle, elves, within and out:
The credit that thy lady hath of thee
Till now, I ne'er endured.
'Tis not so sweet now as it was before.
What revels are in hand? Is there no play,
SCENE IV. London. The palace.
When down her weedy trophies and herself
And lastly, to confirm that amity
But as successively from blood to blood,
Even till I shrink with cold, I smile and say
All the world's a stage,
and by midnight look to hear further from me.
But omne bene, say I; being of an old father's mind,
But not express'd in fancy; rich, not gaudy;
Of all these ears,--for where I am robb'd and bound,
Are to be fear'd. Have you a precedent
To stand upon my kingdom once again.
To Lynn, my lord,
Her and her virtues, I cannot forget
Shall we not see these daughters and these sisters?
For there was never yet philosopher
Thus to make poor females mad.
And salt too little which may season give
Unless, by using means, I lame the foot
Enter OTHELLO, LODOVICO, DESDEMONA, EMILIA and Attendants
With any passion of inflaming love,
Exit
And so farewell: I would not have my father
It will be light, my lord, that you may bear it
A sweeter and a lovelier gentleman,
But it proceeds or comes from them to you
gibbets, I never saw one so prone. Yet, on my
At Friar Patrick's cell,
Now, by my sword, well hast thou fought to-day;
Wisdom and fortune combating together,
Madam, I know not, nor I greatly care not:
Was ever man so proud as is this Marcius?
since I was three year old, conversed with a
Hath widow'd and unchilded many a one,
Do the wise think them other? is not l'envoy a salve?
An she agree, within her scope of choice
mortal in nature, so is all nature in love mortal in folly.
he cannot lie with his neighbour's wife, but it
This judgment of the heavens, that makes us tremble,
O sides, you are too tough;
death, with the manner how she came to't bravely
Yes, captain; but with this acknowledgement,
do not like her.
thing; I'll remember't anon:--even there, thou
high-steward. With him, NORFOLK, with the
quickly: she'll make you amends, I warrant you.
literatured in the wars.
this courteous office, as to know of the knight what
But never doubt I love.
For doubtless Burgundy will yield him help,
And those thy fears might have wrought fears in me:
When Lear is mad. What wilt thou do, old man?
I will disparage her no farther till you are my
Peace, fool! thy master and his man are here,
What surety of the world, what hope, what stay,
No talk of Timon, nothing of him expect.
Our lusty English, all with purpled hands,
When that is known and golden time convents,
labour: he that loves to be flattered is worthy o'
ANTONIO: Let me yet know of you whither you are bound.
Therefore confess thee freely of thy sin;
Sups the fair Rosaline whom thou so lovest,
Give me the paper; let me read the same;
Seal up your lips, and give no words but mum:
Had he his hurts before?
May drop upon his kingdom and devour
And he that slew them fouler than he is:
The honey of his language. No, he's settled,
That I might sit all night and watch with you:
And so are like to do.
lose thee nothing; do it carefully. And the
abused; and Don John is the author of all, who is
And I again, in Henry's royal name,
after my name; call them all Pandars; let all
prayers. Fare you well, my lord; and believe this
We may of their encounter frankly judge,
And turn her out to who will take her in:
Enter ADRIANA and LUCIANA
And I'll repair the misery thou dost bear
There is no shuffling, there the action lies
I know not.
Nay, good my lord,--
death! Two o'clock is your hour?
will have the heart of him, if he forfeit; for, were
O, odious is the name!
Is but a substance that must yield to you;
I know not by what power I am made bold,
your lord's taking of this. Receive it so.
True! I'll be sworn they are true.
That e'er I watch'd and the most heaviest.
As stairs of sand, wear yet upon their chins
Put armour on thine ears and on thine eyes;
Thou art my friend, that know'st my tongue so well.
And I wish, my liege,
He is a Roman; no more kin to me
With my vex'd spirits I cannot take a truce,
To see, now, how a jest shall come about!
Fall on thy head! Farewell, my lord;
And that shall bail me; hie thee, slave, be gone!
and blood loves my flesh and blood; he that loves my
Would better fit his chamber than this shadow.
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
Did not great Julius bleed for justice' sake?
I'll deny nothing.
Such things as might offend the weakest spleen
him: something too crabbed that way, friar.
The grave does to the dead; for her male issue
What life is in that, to be the death of this marriage?
This loathsome sequestration have I had:
What says this leaden casket?
Stay yet; hear reason. Edmund, I arrest thee
My state is desperate for my master's love;
This is the silliest stuff that ever I heard.
[Within]  There's wood enough within.
comedy. No more words: away! go, away!
No; I say nay to that.
To your worship's house, sir?
To beg of thee, it is my more dishonour
Ho, ho, confess'd it! hang'd it, have you not?
Yes.
You told a lie, an odious, damned lie;
I think it be: but we have no great cause to desire
Here! go; the desk, the purse! sweet, now, make haste.
Would make the great'st king double,--to be partner'd
Thou know'st we work by wit, and not by witchcraft;
Exit
I'll whisper with the general, and know his pleasure.
If there be more, more woeful, hold it in;
is infinite and the execution confined, that the
not: his disgrace is to be called boy; but his
Within my mouth you have engaol'd my tongue,
Be confident to speak, Northumberland:
Why, my horse, my love, my horse.
have me whipped for lying; and sometimes I am
What, frighted with false fire!
But in plain shock and even play of battle,
For mine own part, I could be well content
That she was false to wedlock?
Give him a little earth for charity!'
I'll charm his eyes against she do appear.
He will maintain you like a gentlewoman.
To do a murderous deed, to rob a man,
And will o'erreach them in their own devices:
done, let the law go whistle: I warrant you.
ANTIPHOLUS
I have; 'tis ready.
breathes at's nostrils.
Father, in. I cannot get a service, no; I have
Why with some little train, my Lord of Buckingham?
Through proof of harness to my heart, and there
What is he that you ask for, niece?
I am the king's friend, and will rid his foe.
I have seen the dumb men throng to see him and
But not possess'd it, and, though I am sold,
I have heard it said so. O, these men, these men!
Alone I fought in your Corioli walls,
SCENE II. Before Gloucester's castle.
Upon the brook that brawls along this wood:
To make her come and know her keeper's call,
The offence pardons itself. Dear Isabel,
She had transform'd me to a curtal dog and made
A wisp of straw were worth a thousand crowns,
Heaven give you many, many merry days!
Come on, Panthino: you shall be employ'd
Is Antony again, I will be Cleopatra.
What, shall we forth?
I would you were as I would have you be!
Without the king's will or the state's allowance,
sings 'em over as they were gods or goddesses; you
Come, sir, leave me your snatches, and yield me a
Exeunt
And not impute this yielding to light love,
A maid of grace and complete majesty--
And do not stand on quillets how to slay him:
Good prudence; smatter with your gossips, go.
Holds it true, sir, that the Duke of Cornwall was so slain?
And answer, thanks: I duly am inform'd
So doth the swan her downy cygnets save,
And said, 'Dear brother, live, and be a king'?
I then, all smarting with my wounds being cold,
Hath been! is it ended, then? Our state thinks not
For Dickon thy master is bought and sold.'
Your swords are now too massy for your strengths
There's such divinity doth hedge a king,
SCENE I. London. The palace.
My Lord of Westmoreland, lead him to his tent.
Drew all such humours from him.
Out of this wood do not desire to go:
It cannot be; it is impossible:
Why, any cloak will serve the turn, my lord.
Well, then, that's the humour of't.
This precious stone set in the silver sea,
To deal with grief alone.
Show me thy humble heart, and not thy knee,
And die in bands for this unmanly deed!
The packet, Cromwell.
'Tis like that Richmond with the rest shall down.
From first to last resolve you.
How his companion, youthful Valentine,
There let his head and lifeless body lie,
Before you had worn it out.
And, as I hear, the great commanding Warwick
Be call'd Posthumus Leonitus; and
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  As red as fire! nay, then
Sayest thou so, old Jack? go thy ways; I'll make
women; he was not inclined that way.
these robes are not gentlemen born: give me the
Forgive my tyranny; but do not say
Which I'll not call a creature of thy place,
you may take him at your pleasure: I will be near
Let's reinforce, or fly.
For it is known we were but hollow friends:
The lag end of their lewdness and be laugh'd at.
But surely master, not a rag of money.
The sun with one eye vieweth all the world.
My Nan shall be the queen of all the fairies,
Says very wisely, 'It is ten o'clock:
Poor Cassio's smiles, gestures and light behavior,
Who put my man i' the stocks?
Well.
If Brutus so unkindly knock'd, or no;
the bolting.
Brought me to Mytilene. But, good sir,
Throws a stone at him
Whispers
fixture of thy foot would give an excellent motion
I have a daughter--have while she is mine--
That they do hold their course toward Tewksbury:
I am sure, have shown at full their royal minds--
You think me an impostor: no, good faith;
husband: but in such a 'then' I write a 'never.'
This lanthorn doth the horned moon present;--
To the hopeful execution do I leave you
Then follow me, and give me audience, friends.
He will chastise me.
To be seduced by thy flattery,
Come, for the third, Laertes: you but dally;
To any well-deserving friend;
Must find love's prick and Rosalind.
You love me not.
It is so too: and have not we affections,
But hear you, hear you!
Assisted by that most disloyal traitor
So sweet a kiss the golden sun gives not
By yielding up thy body to my will;
Your beauty was the cause of that effect;
Come thronging soft and delicate desires,
Would you would bear your fortune like a man!
But was a petty servant to the state,
Not all the dukes of waterish Burgundy
wears a lock.
Petruchio, patience; I am Grumio's pledge:
And quite lost their hearts: the nobles hath he fined
He shall not rule me.
Death! my lord,
And, for this night, we'll fast for company:
I must be married to my brother's daughter,
This is my father's choice.
Yet thus far fortune maketh us amends,
I have not from your eyes that gentleness
All's one for that.
Can alter a decree established:
When Cressy battle fatally was struck,
Thinking to bar thee of succession, as
When better fall, for your avails they fell:
With their own nobleness, which could have turn'd
Exit
Be opposite all planets of good luck
And strip myself to death, as to a bed
Well, give them their charge, neighbour Dogberry.
For he hath been five thousand years a boy.
Both to defend himself and to approve
In having known no travel in his youth.
cannot play upon me.
Tranio is changed into Lucentio.
They have the plague, and caught it of your eyes;
Intends to appear before the people, hoping
And now in England to our heart's great sorrow,
My wife, my liege! I shall beseech your highness,
The consul Coriolanus.
intrusion; for they say, if money go before, all
You two are book-men: can you tell me by your wit
No, Valentine.
This torture should be roar'd in dismal hell.
To-morrow I intend to hunt again.
Vex not yourself, nor strive not with your breath;
Carry him gently to my fairest chamber
DON
learned that of me.
He had his part of it; let him pay.
ACT I
O, help me here!
cannot be spoken of. There might you have beheld one
taken with the cramp was drowned and the foolish
You were as good to shoot against the wind.
The article of my oath.
Of female favour, and bestows himself
Revenge upon the cardinal.
About relieving of the sentinels:
Natural rebellion, done i' the blaze of youth;
Cuckoo, cuckoo: O word of fear,
All men, I hope, live so.
[Aside to ISABELLA]           Ay, well said.
Eros! mine armour, Eros!
What answer makes your grace unto my suit?
And put my eyeballs in thy vaulty brows
Salisbury and Warwick are no simple peers.
As dearly as my own,--be satisfied.
Play, music, then! Nay, you must do it soon.
Plantagenet, for all the claim thou lay'st,
Exit
Graybeard, thy love doth freeze.
Suffer love! a good epithet! I do suffer love
As little prince, having so great a title
That have but labour'd to attain this hour.
Your mightiness on both parts best can witness.
Are to the jealous confirmations strong
That mounts no higher than a bird can soar.
In state of health thou say'st; and thou say'st free.
A gentle scroll. Fair lady, by your leave;
O, that thou wert not, poor distressed soul!
all. I prithee, take the cork out of thy mouth that
I am that merry wanderer of the night.
Re-enter Provost, with BARNARDINE, CLAUDIO muffled, and JULIET
Pay recompense, if you will grant my suit.
And with your best endeavour have stirr'd up
And all our yesterdays have lighted fools
Do you know them?
Will you think so?
To speak with you; may it please you to come down.
To Edmund earl of Gloucester; seek him out
And palm to palm is holy palmers' kiss.
Prove armed soldiers, ere her native king
But to himself so secret and so close,
Nay, as I am a gentleman, I will.
Hath trifled former knowings.
Marry, as I told you before, John and Robert, be
To think, when thou shalt be disedged by her
Exeunt
In thy just proof, repeals and reconciles thee.
What safe and nicely I might well delay
Whose settled visage and deliberate word
sister, for, look you, she is as white as a lily and
It yearns me not if men my garments wear;
I'll meet you at that place some hour hence.
Pray you, sir, was't not the wise woman of
What, not to pray?
Not rash like his accusers, and thus answer'd:
ambitious, his gait majestical, and his general
Confounds the tongue and makes the senses rough.
But what says Jupiter, I ask thee?
Who's there? my woman Helen?
[Aside]  Clubs, clubs! these lovers will not keep
time in you?
'Glamis hath murder'd sleep, and therefore Cawdor
Valentine?
In Isbel's case and mine own. Service is no
Why, man?
Be certain what you do, sir, lest your justice
Not a poor boy, sir, but the rich Jew's man; that
tongues into those wounds and speak for them; so, if
you seem to say so.
Excitements to the field, or speech for truce,
Withhold thy speed, dreadful occasion!
Desire to breed by me. Here's flowers for you;
Brought you this letter, gentlemen?
Though in her cradle, yet now promises
But what is like me formerly.
If that be all the difference in his love,
There's more to be consider'd; but we'll even
Duck with French nods and apish courtesy,
you all your lands,
Shall make thy peace for moving me to rage;
before day. An the Prince and Poins be not two
'Oman, forbear.
What is 'lapis,' William?
But I must make fair weather yet a while,
Ay, but to lose our bottles in the pool,--
pavilion in the posteriors of this day, which the
For I did play a lamentable part:
Whereof thy proud child, arrogant man, is puff'd,
In faith, lady, you have a merry heart.
Kate, you and I cannot be confined within the weak
For I am she, and altogether joyless.
The sheriff and all the watch are at the door: they
This label on my bosom; whose containing
Sing it: 'tis no matter how it be in tune, so it
Let it not sound a thought upon your tongue
Sirs, take you to your tools. You, cousins, shall
Shall wound my honour with such feeble wrong,
is young; and, therefore, if you should deal double
Or be not, I'll not swear.
Upon our sides it never shall be broken.
[Within]  Servilius, help! My lord! my lord!
With poisonous spite and envy.
They are so.
Enter Lion and Moonshine
Thou lily-liver'd boy. What soldiers, patch?
By any indirection: I did send
May you be happy in your wish, my lord
Methinks, mistress, you should have little reason
a part of the thousandth part of a minute in the
This honourable bounty shall belong:
She, in my judgment, was as fair as you:
By day, by night, waking and in my dreams,
Ay, madam, it is common.
Enter KING JOHN, CARDINAL PANDULPH, and Attendants
come to such penury?
That is beloved. How dost thou like this tune?
I shall do good.
But the worst of me. So, I leave you, sir,
first and now, was and is, to hold, as 'twere, the
The foul fiend haunts poor Tom in the voice of a
Dishonestly afflicted, but yet honest.
Why, how now, lord!
Dost overshine the gallant'st dames of Rome,
Doth lesser blench at sufferance than I do.
We are the greater poll, and in true fear
him, though removed fifty times, shall all come
thou darest tempt me further, draw thy sword.
The lady speaks again in Welsh
O Lord! my boy, my Arthur, my fair son!
But art thou not advised, he took some care
Whose souls are not corrupted as 'tis thought.
Do not infest your mind with beating on
lamb when it baes will never answer a calf when he bleats.
I love not to see wretchedness o'er charged
You shall have none ill, sir; for I'll try if they
Which I, disdaining, scorn'd; and craved death,
The greatness he has got. I hourly learn
As stout and proud as he were lord of all,
When they go from Achilles: shall the proud lord
What news? how does pretty Mistress Anne?
Red, master; red as blood.
Show'd like a rebel's whore: but all's too weak:
Alarum. Excursions. Enter PRINCE HENRY, LORD JOHN OF LANCASTER, and EARL OF WESTMORELAND
England all Olivers and Rowlands bred,
Come, come it nay not be. I wonder much,
And, force perforce, I'll make him yield the crown,
Is yond despised and ruinous man my lord?
Edward's seven sons, whereof thyself art one,
Of fool and feather that they got in France,
Devotion, patience, courage, fortitude,
A s mine is to him?
Preserved the Britons, was the Romans' bane.'
Cassius or Caesar never shall turn back,
O, no, no, no! 'tis true. Here, take this too;
As being got, your father then in France,
And passion, having my best judgment collied,
With charitable bill,--O bill, sore-shaming
No lesser of her honour confident
But not so citizen a wanton as
Than bear so low a sail, to strike to thee.
Therein, ye gods, you make the weak most strong;
This look of thine will hurl my soul from heaven,
Alas, the tender boy, in passion moved,
Where I arrive, and my approach be shunn'd,
Dear lady,--
The bird of dawning singeth all night long:
As broad and general as the casing air:
You snatch some hence for little faults; that's love,
Inflamed with Venus: never did young man fancy
your 'quaes,' and your 'quods,' you must be
physicians,
Alas, the way is wearisome and long!
And this you might have heard of here, by me,
Cleave in the midst, and perish.
Is't not the tenor of his oracle,
Is three long hours, yet she is not come.
Whether they live or die.
Thanks, good friend Escalus, for thy much goodness:
Out, you green-sickness carrion! out, you baggage!
A care-crazed mother of a many children,
Break out into a second course of mischief,
My sighs and tears and will not once relent?
It is well done, and fitting for a princess
And watch your safety.
We make ourselves fools, to disport ourselves;
will I frame and make fit for his attempt. If you
Thou still hast been the father of good news.
The untimely emptying of the happy throne
sometimes by chance: let me pocket up my pedlar's excrement.
In peril of precipitation
And may not be performed by thyself,
Willing you to demand your hostages,
'Tis all one, I will show myself a tyrant: when I
Good, good: the justice of it pleases: very good.
All strange and terrible events are welcome,
Yet it had not been amiss the rod had been made,
Well, sir, I will; therefore, I will, sir; thus:
My bond to wedlock, or my love and duty,
late is to be up late.
SCENE II. A room in the palace.
That stay his cure: their malady convinces
Whether a maid so tender, fair and happy,
We have ever your good word.
I am much bound to you.
But all in vain; they had no heart to fight,
In peace what each of them by the other lose,
I nothing know where she remains, why gone,
Say yea to thy desires. A thousand welcomes!
For both, my lord.
I'll steal away.
Exeunt DESDEMONA and EMILIA
The closing up of our most wretched eyes;
For Banquo's issue have I filed my mind;
What trade, sir?
Lo, here I lend thee this sharp-pointed sword;
The place is dignified by the doer's deed:
Whom have we here? Buckingham, to disturb me?
But that you do not love me.
The rite of May, and hearing our intent,
And ask'd the mayor what meant this wilful silence:
Come, come; for thou shalt thrust thy hand as deep
Into my story: say 'Thus, mine enemy fell,
Will bring me to consider that which may
Puts to him all the learnings that his time
To the hot passion of distemper'd blood
blindness! I am sure hanging's the way of winking.
bricklayer.
That with his very heart despiseth me?
All is lost;
the goodness that is cheap in beauty makes beauty
Gnawing with thy teeth; and be this dismal sight
Come let's in all.
A babe is moulded. Be attent,
Some say the lark and loathed toad change eyes,
Ere bloody hands were wash'd, with such a peace.
Thou wouldst else have made thy tale large.
You come for money?
Thunder still
Lest, then, the people, and patricians too,
I say the earth did shake when I was born.
The sun begins to gild the western sky;
As recompense of our dear services
That seeks to overthrow religion,
Than misery itself would give; rewards
What is he?
SCENE IV. Another part of the field.
Which, as he breathed defiance to my ears,
And so, from hour to hour, we ripe and ripe,
Being so frustrate, tell him he mocks
What's the matter?
kissing of her batlet and the cow's dugs that her
enough than for us to undergo any difficulty imposed.
Deep clerks she dumbs; and with her needle composes
Who comes with her?
What, drawn, and talk of peace! I hate the word,
Away! I do condemn mine ears that have
My love shall hear the music of my hounds.
Out on thee! Seeming! I will write against it:
O, my lord, my lord! the sheriff with a most
A good digestion to you all: and once more
many opportunities to cut him off: if your will
Rise up, good aunt.
Then let them all encircle him about
And let him take't at worst; for their knives care not,
His humorous predominance; yea, watch
My heart is thirsty for that noble pledge.
Who!--nay, then: come, come, you'll do him wrong
And make his eyeballs roll with wonted sight.
Does unmake you. I have given suck, and know
If you deny it, let the danger light
Your actions are my dreams;
For common justice, you're as pregnant in
Enter NORTHUMBERLAND and others
Hath done this deed on Caesar. For your part,
Twelve cities and seven walled towns of strength,
soldier, put up your iron: you are well fleshed; come on.
And when they from thy bosom pluck a flower,
Exit GLENDOWER
Who's gone this morning?
Grappling with him
That you are well restored, my lord, I'm glad:
Who of their broken debtors take a third,
Perchance, my lord, I show more craft than love;
indiscreet an officer. Drunk? and speak parrot?
The grosser manner of these world's delights
Or daring-hardy as to touch the lists,
Enter SHALLOW, SLENDER, and MISTRESS QUICKLY
In yonder tower, to overpeer the city,
Welcome, dear Proteus! Mistress, I beseech you,
Grows dainty of his worth, and in his tent
She shall be buried with her face upwards.
To dew the sovereign flower and drown the weeds.
sayings, the Sisters Three and such branches of
My dear Othello!
What from the cape can you discern at sea?
SCENE I. The French King's pavilion.
and credit and as I hope to live.
To the king's ship, invisible as thou art:
Showing we would not spare heaven as we love it,
The narrow-prying father, Minola,
Poison, or fire, or suffocating streams,
The hour's now come;
To the selfsame tune and words. Who's here?
Thanks, noble peer;
That he hath used thee.
Fly o'er them, all impatient for their hour.
Captain, what greeting will you to my Lord Lafeu?
Exeunt
Believe me, no: I thank my fortune for it,
Who, my cousin Cressida?
Exit Lady
[Within]  The porter for this time, sir, and my name
Then learn this of me: to have, is to have; for it
Pray heavens he be;
To LUCIUS
Here comes the lady; let her witness it.
Well, I'll put it on, and I will dissemble myself
Have heaven and earth together demonstrated
Holds idleness your subject, I should take you
You have too much respect upon the world:
Is for my better grace. Adieu, my lord:
way.
Were there necessity in your request, although
The devil fiddle 'em! I am glad they are going,
His passion is so ripe, it needs must break.
The flinty ribs of this contemptuous city:
With him;
I will example it:
Say to her, we have measured many miles
How sad he looks! sure, he is much afflicted.
And till it be undoubted, we do lock
most resolutely snatched on Monday night and most
A lord to a lord, a man to a man; stuffed with all
Am I to you.
Thou hast the strength of will to slay thyself,
The general is my lover: I have been
therefore he scorns to say his prayers, lest a'
Masters, I am come hither, as it were, upon my man's
Her father will be angry.
Lay by all nicety and prolixious blushes,
Thou wouldst as soon go kindle fire with snow
You gentle Romans,--
Puts my apparel and my countenance on,
Will parley with Jack Cade their general:
from thy throat till this other had pulled out thy
My thoughts, that labour to persuade my soul
Yet wild, the people's hearts brimful of fear,
Scratching could not make it worse, an 'twere such
How thou lovest us, show in our brother's welcome;
Fair lovely maid, once more good day to thee.
Enter ANTONIO, SALARINO, and SALANIO
Well, go to, go to.
For this design. What course I mean to hold
Be as cauterizing to the root o' the tongue,
Ay, marry, are they, sir.
And shall the same give pardon to a slave?
By the consent of all, we were establish'd
That always favour'd him.
That may be, sir, when I may be a wife.
And I embrace this fortune patiently,
fish for she would not exchange flesh with one that
Enter CROMWELL, and stands amazed
Our greatest friends attend us.
If he be put upon 't; and that's as easy
And did my brother Bedford toil his wits,
Ay, ay, Antipholus, look strange and frown:
Well, my lord.
What is't thou canst demand?
I hope no less, yet needful 'tis to fear;
Were, as he says, not with such strength denied
Where are thy children? wherein dost thou, joy?
parrot, and yet the son of a woman! His industry is
And like a hermit overpass'd thy days.
The civil citizens kneading up the honey,
As they say spirits do, at midnight, have
Thou hast affected the fine strains of honour,
Let it not be sweet.
And stop the rising of blood-sucking sighs,
Witness the process of your speech, wherein
Where thou wilt hit me dead?
Thy reason, man?
'Tis pity he is not honest: yond's that same knave
of the infinite flatteries that follow youth and opulency.
Our eldest-born, speak first.
He had, my lord; and that it was which caused
No, uncle; but our crosses on the way
neither savouring of poetry, wit, nor invention: I
The vow is made. Come, brother, take a head;
Than they whom youth and ease have taught to glose;
So would not I, for your own sake; for I have many
Content you, gentlemen: I will compound this strife:
The very beadsmen learn to bend their bows
The appellant in all duty greets your highness,
O'er-prized all popular rate, in my false brother
To the Capitol, come:
So is theirs and ours.
Where's Simple, my man? Can you tell, cousin?
Enter a Messenger
Plumpy Bacchus with pink eyne!
Well, I will marry one day, but to try.
Nay, let them follow:
Whose high exploits and honourable deeds
But till this afternoon his passion
Melt Egypt into Nile! and kindly creatures
Our swifter composition.
Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
O beauty! where is thy faith?
And therefore instantly this prince must die:
Aiming at Silvia as a sweeter friend.
This is his claim, his threatening and my message;
Made me to fan you thus, but the gods made you,
to myself; they'll be snatching. Give me an egg,
house-eaves, because they are lecherous. The duke
Pish!
Exeunt
The Knights dance
On mother's flesh which did me breed.
mistress fallen out.
this world goes.
Tut, I can counterfeit the deep tragedian;
My lord,
As hell, Sir Topas.
Have I been ever free, and must my house
In personal action, yet prodigious grown
O most gentle pulpiter! what tedious homily of love
Heaven be my witness you do, if you suspect me in
I am sorry for thee, friend; 'tis the duke's pleasure,
A man at least, for less I should not be;
That, in the official marks invested, you
Let us about it: it is admirable pleasures and fery
Saying, 'What lack you?' and 'Where lies your grief?'
You cannot, sir, take from me any thing that I will
Then, as in grateful virtue I am bound
Setting thy womanhood aside, thou art a beast to say
Than at the strangeness of it.
Than they in fearing.
These fifteen years! by my fay, a goodly nap.
And sold to slavery, of my redemption thence
As those which sell would give: but you well know,
Unless I flatter with myself too much.
Re-enter Clown
No, no, no, no! Come, let's away to prison:
is within a very little of nothing.
You were the duke's surveyor, and lost your office
Sure my brother is amorous on Hero and hath
And stands upon the honour of his birth,
When shall I hear all through? This fierce
Of basilisks, of cannon, culverin,
The moon shines bright: in such a night as this,
Come, come; thou'lt do thy message, wilt thou not?
Will you go hunt, my lord?
Envy and crooked malice nourishment
SCENE III. The forest.
Marry, well remember'd.
Of gallowglasses and stout kerns
If that your moody discontented souls
tarry so long. But I would be loath to fall into
And wander we to see thy honest son,
Hie you, Messala,
I'll speak it in my spirit and honour, 'no.'
That counterfeit'st the person of a king?
Her dowry shall weigh equal with a queen:
man so bad as is thyself.
The great metropolis and see of Rome:
Thou shalt never get such a secret from me but by a parable.
Be free, and fare thou well! Please you, draw near.
blush and weep and thou must look pale and wonder.
How dare the plants look up to heaven, from whence
O, when she's angry, she is keen and shrewd!
Exit Launcelot
With any just reproach?
Why all these things change from their ordinance
For 'tis to such a thing,--
The duke will lay upon him all the honour
Enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS and a British Lord
him, if he came.
The crown, usurp'd, disgraced his kingly glory.
Thus droops this lofty pine and hangs his sprays;
But being widow, and my Gloucester with her,
Take the fool away.
No.
And on that day at noon whereon he says
Exeunt
In nature is a tyranny; it hath been
Upon record, my gracious lord.
Ah, my good lord, I grieve at what I speak,
Among my maids: full little, God knows, looking
There is an air comes from her: what fine chisel
Enter AGAMEMNON, ULYSSES, DIOMEDES, NESTOR, AJAX, MENELAUS, and CALCHAS
But where one villain is, then him abandon.
Witness good bringing up, fortune and truth:
Do you know what you say?
Made known herself my daughter.
My lord, I know him; 'tis a meddling friar;
Ay, ay, the cords.
That thinks men honest that but seem to be so,
By thee was punched full of deadly holes
And thus awhile the fit will work on him;
Flourish. Exeunt
Strikes him again
Exeunt all but PETRUCHIO
I am glad of it; for now I shall have reason
less beloved of her uncle than his own daughter; and
Grace to stand, and virtue go;
There will we mount, and thither walk on foot
And will return to Venice. Hence, avaunt!
Black and portentous must this humour prove,
mouth, I would bite; if I had my liberty, I would do
As that is desperate which we would prevent.
You see him there, do you?
Which pierces so that it assaults
Were feverous and did tremble.
As did AEneas old Anchises bear,
And send the hearers weeping to their beds:
matter. I am given, sir, secretly to understand
bawdy-house; they pick pockets.
So please your highness to behold the fight.
I will discuss the humour of this love to Page.
But where's the body that I should embrace?
As far as Calais, to mine uncle's head?'
For thy part, I do wish thou wert a dog,
when thou wilt, and thou shalt have it.
I hope I have: I am able now, methinks,
The captive is enriched: on whose side? the
SCENE III. A room in Cymbeline's palace.
Bell rings
To offer it the show of violence;
Shall be when your first queen's again in breath;
Then have I substance too.
is your daughter.
For he is fierce and cannot brook hard language.
Fully unfold. Thyself and thy belongings
Here, Fluellen; wear thou this favour for me and
And say it was thy mother that thou meant'st
When, Harry, when?
company; and the half shirt is two napkins tacked
Either are past remedies, or, timely knowing,
And twenty more such names and men as these
valour bear the sin upon their own heads. I'll take
More to know
There's no offence, my lord.
But, Katharine, what was sent to you from fair Dumain?
Disgrace to your great worths and shame to me,
And such a one do I profess myself. For, sir,
To VARRO
fleshes his will in the spoil of her honour: he hath
Shall I twice lose.
Condemn'd to die for treason, but no traitor;
jack, upon an up-cast to be hit away! I had a
the revenue that was old Sir Rowland's will I
'Thou unpossessing bastard! dost thou think,
[Aside to SUFFOLK]      If it do,
shall our poor city find: and all this is long of
From lovers' food till morrow deep midnight.
Exit FENTON
And Warwick shall disprove it. You forget
your grace: for trouble being gone, comfort should
O, ho! do you come near me now? no worse man than
Lives like a drunken sailor on a mast,
I'll be thy master: walk with me; speak freely.
O night, O night! alack, alack, alack,
High wedlock then be honoured:
Man's life's as cheap as beast's: thou art a lady;
Since the first sword was drawn about this question,
word more,--
Are now each one the slaughter-man of twenty:
Here is my hand, the deed is worthy doing.
We are true subjects to the king, King Edward.
Am I; who ready here do stand in arms,
Assume the port of Mars; and at his heels,
If you can, your reason?
With what's unreal thou coactive art,
If to come hither you have measured miles,
My mother's son did get your father's heir;
Romans, countrymen, and lovers! hear me for my
He does indeed;
With true-love showers.
shape of two countries at once, as, a German from
Peace, I pray you.
Enter TIMON
Perchance because she knows them innocent.
open't. So, let's see: it was told me I should be
Were't not that we stand up against them all,
welcome dear.
Our eldest, Malcolm, whom we name hereafter
To brag unto them, thus I did, and thus;
Now will we take some order in the town,
The force of this commission: pray, look to't;
Attend me, then: I went to Antioch,
Herod of Jewry; Mithridates, king
Marry, sir, by my wife; who, if she had been a woman
That would have forced your honour and your love;
Whose overweening arm I have pluck'd back,
And, for the time shall not seem tedious,
Ay, very well, my lord.
SCENE II. Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
RICHARD
Affected greatness got by you, not you:
my name is Brook; only for a jest.
Exit
Why?
Well, gentlemen,
Put bars between the owners and their rights!
At heaviest answer.
Good morrow, uncle Pandarus.
Gloucester and Buckingham.
My life I never held but as a pawn
Of excellent witchcraft, who of force must know
Come, come, thou art as hot a Jack in thy mood as
From certain and possess'd conveniences,
What kind of my obedience I should tender;
I quickly were dissolved from my hive,
If the winds rage, doth not the sea wax mad,
Then yield thee, coward,
finder of madmen. But see, but see.
widow weeps.
To the dead bodies: I will apprehend him.
Exit
I pray you all, stand up.
How came
You'll not be perjured, 'tis a hateful thing;
This child was prisoner to the womb and is
[To SIR NATHANIEL]  O, sir, you have overthrown
upon no trail, never trust me when I open again.
Ay, marry, now my soul hath elbow-room;
That stays to bear my letters to my friends,
How doth the lady?
Behold, my Lord of Winchester, the duke
With burden of our armour here we sweat.
I know you are now, sir, a gentleman born.
At supper! where?
Enter PINDARUS
Gramercies, good fool: how does your mistress?
When he wakes! why, fool, he shall never wake till
That time, acquaintance, custom and condition
The commons here in Kent are up in arms:
And happiness to his accomplices!
And many such-like 'As'es of great charge,
Taken to wife: nor have we herein barr'd
I do well believe you.
If you would walk in absence of the sun.
By forfeiting a traitor and a coward.
That's even as fair as--at hand, quoth the
part. Thine, in the dearest design of industry,
Upon a rapier's point: stay, Tybalt, stay!
You have holp to ravish your own daughters and
Till when,--the which I hope shall ne'er be seen,--
And with thy daring folly burn the world?
In eye of Imogen, that best
Even in the faith of valour, to appear
But if you faint, as fearing to do so,
O my most gracious lord,
All scholars, lawyers, courtiers, gentlemen,
Most gracious sir,
Have no such daughter, nor shall ever see
and, as it were, spoke the prologue of our comedy;
duck, thou art made like a goose.
And you, my noble and well-warranted cousin,
Hark! a drum.
Hath she forsworn me?
I dare now call mine own. O Cromwell, Cromwell!
notice to such men of sort and suit as are to meet
To think upon you.
Is she sole child to the king?
comprehended two aspicious persons, and we would
We should not, when the blood was cool,
If I had a mind to be honest, I see Fortune would
All things in common nature should produce
And I was trimm'd in Madam Julia's gown,
Ran hither to your grace; whom I beseech
By him that thunders, thou hast lusty arms;
Nobler than my revolt is infamous,
You to his love must accord,
But this I think, there's no man is so vain
drown or hang themselves, more than their even
The nobility think scorn to go in leather aprons.
Will greet us here anon, my gentle Varrius.
'Speak, strike, redress!' Am I entreated
After we part from Agamemnon's tent,
'Twill fill your stomachs; please you eat of it.
Do what thou canst, I will not go to-day;
I'll plant Plantagenet, root him up who dares:
That trusted home
And they shall do their office. So, be gone;
Since first I saw yourself and Diomed
Nor care I who doth feed upon my cost;
I will seek them out.
The sorrow that delivers us thus changed
No, no;
My strength can give you: then no more remains,
'Twere as good a deed as to drink when a man's
me a young doctor of Rome; his name is Balthasar. I
What night-rule now about this haunted grove?
Her maiden strewments and the bringing home
I must to England; you know that?
The more I hate, the more he follows me.
How goes it here?
The dignity of this act was worth the audience of
Good! gramercy.
But will you woo this wild-cat?
Let go, slave, or thou diest!
With thy embracements to my wife's allies,
Each jealous of the other, as the stung
order of law a furred gown to keep him warm; and
If ever I did dream of such a matter, Abhor me.
Not more resembles that sweet rosy lad
France, thou shalt rue this treason with thy tears,
master,--I may call him my master, look you, for I
That dogg'd the mighty army of the Dauphin?
Fat paunches have lean pates, and dainty bits
Hath well composed thee. Thy father's moral parts
And I will strive with things impossible;
to dinner, thither.
What we so fear'd he had a charge to do.
Then I would you were so honest a man.
And the deep-drawing barks do there disgorge
Like one that comes here to besiege his court,
Keep tune there still, so you will sing it out:
No such jade as you, if me you mean.
One spirit to command: they all do hate him
Ay, you are honest men.
To ISABELLA
The cistern of my lust, and my desire
Till you hear further from his highness.
he had the honour to be the officer at a place there
Under correction, sir, we know whereuntil it doth amount.
Thou crossest me? what honour dost thou seek
Let's have one other gaudy night: call to me
So, thanks to all at once and to each one,
Born blind, an't please your grace.
cannot show it in rhyme; I have tried: I can find
But that 'tis shown ignobly and in treason.
For whom my heart drops blood, and my false spirits
Put him to choler straight: he hath been used
Exeunt
Bring him our prisoner.
To the sea-side, and put his cause and quarrel
'Twould make her amiable and subdue my father
my hands by helping me to the speech of Beatrice.
Therefore let's follow.
Marcus, we will.
sojourner we have; you'll lose nothing by custom.
All places yield to him ere he sits down;
Would win some words of him.
Enter ROSALIND, with a paper, reading
direction till thy death! then if she that lays thee
All that is mine I leave at thy dispose,
the weather or our office.
I am with child, ye bloody homicides:
Come, let us to the castle.
His weapons holy saws of sacred writ,
O Isabel, will you not lend a knee?
DON
I'll bring you to a captain in this town,
better three hours too soon than a minute too late.
Here, hard by: stand close.
If the English had any apprehension, they would run away.
Thy deed, inhuman and unnatural,
Should answer solemn accidents. The matter?
To which the Grecians are most prompt and pregnant:
intendment or brook such disgrace well as he shall
And to her father turn our thoughts again,
Enter two Senators with VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA,  VALERIA,  and c. passing over the stage, followed by Patricians and others
the wonder of it, came missives from the king, who
I fear the trust Othello puts him in.
Drew sleep out of mine eyes, blood from my cheeks,
Let Lucius and Titinius guard our door.
Would men observingly distil it out.
To name the bigger light, and how the less,
To find thy brother Bassianus dead.
For good Lord Titus' innocence in all;
Were our tears wanting to this funeral,
Unlike than this thou tell'st. I lost my children:
I commend my duty to your lordship.
That used me so; or else, by Jove I vow,
No; it is stopp'd with other flattering sounds,
To fright them hence with that dread penalty.
What's that?
Well worth the seeing.
Music
The treasury of life, when life itself
hose! a scarlet cloak! and a copatain hat! O, I
His soul and body to their lasting rest.
I am hurt.
And melt in her own fire: proclaim no shame
Not here, sir!
As did the former lions of your blood.
Is to be made, then shall this hand and seal
But since correction lieth in those hands
Decline all this, and see what now thou art:
You know the fiery quality of the duke;
The which he hath detain'd for lewd employments,
Thou art the Mars of malecontents: I second thee; troop on.
boy, the next way home.
But under heavy judgment bears that life
But judge you as you are? O, think on that;
Peace, ho, for shame! confusion's cure lives not
Exit HASTINGS
Divert and crack, rend and deracinate
No farther than the Tower; and, as I guess,
five marks, ready money: marry, then ginger was not
I must have your maidenhead taken off, or the common
Roderigo kill'd!
Enter THESEUS, HIPPOLYTA, PHILOSTRATE, Lords and Attendants
Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
My blood for your rude brawls doth lie a-bleeding;
O'erblows the filthy and contagious clouds
Holla! approach.
And buried one and twenty valiant sons,
Dolour comes to him, indeed: you
Deals with our cardinal; and, as I trow,--
How shall she be endow'd,
Your exposition misinterpreting,
likeness: this was sometime a paradox, but now the
That tidings came;--with this she fell distract,
'Whatsoever you may hear to the contrary, let
But I can make respective in myself,
Lament we may, but not revenge thee dead.
have banged the youth into dumbness. This was
'Tis but a blow, which never shall be known.
Good warrant of.
Murder not then the fruit within my womb,
Enter ANGELO
Petruchio, I shall be your ben venuto.
I thank you, good friend Lucio.
Such a nut is Rosalind.
Enter a Doctor of Physic and a Waiting-Gentlewoman
And give true evidence to his love, which stands
Cause it to sound, beseech you.
not what 'twas to be beaten till lately. Follow
My father of this business.
Well met, well met, Master Antipholus.
And take upon's the mystery of things,
But winter and rough weather.
What thought I be not so in grace as you,
And on all sides the authority allow'd;
Which still hath been both grave and prosperous,
Sirrah, here's a fellow will help you to-morrow in
Which now we hold at much uncertainty.
Who's there?
What manner of man is he?
Establish'd then this law; to wit, no female
Here she lets fall the sword
And I will die a hundred thousand deaths
If he be credulous and trust my tale,
And every one shall share i' the gains;
Go to, go to, thou art a foolish fellow:
What is it, my good friends?
Let loose on me the justice of the state
For if the trial of the law o'ertake ye,
Good Helicane, that stay'd at home,
And so I am awake. Poor wretches that depend
Out-go my thinking on you.
Is it not like the king?
base wench. If drawing my sword against the humour
Hadst not been born than not to have pleased me better.
I have been closely shrouded in this bush
with their feeding, they are taught their manage,
Who give their eyes the liberty of gazing.
[Aside to CARDINAL]  Cardinal, I am with you.
Deserves your pity?
good man is to have you understand me that he is
With the mere rankness of their joy.
To sweep the dust behind the door.
For 'tis most dangerous.
Exeunt
SCENE I. Before OLIVIA's house.
His jest will savour but of shallow wit,
No, my most wronged sister; Cleopatra
Than customary bounty can enforce you.
None else of name; and of all other men
To an honour'd triumph strangely furnished.
Still better, and worse.
business is performed, and remain, as he says, your
And on old Hiems' thin and icy crown
An yet, for all his wings, the fool was drown'd.
the dukes he values most; for equalities are so
Antonius!
Than other princesses can that have more time
SONG.
Than will preserve just so much strength in us
These boys are boys of ice, they'll none have her:
Your high profession spiritual: that again
Enter CHARLES
There, my lord:
The unguarded Duncan? what not put upon
He drinks
Look, where he comes!
This tempest will not give me leave to ponder
All sanctimonious ceremonies may
How now, Simple! where have you been? I must wait
By this vile conquest shall attain unto.
How comes this gentle concord in the world,
Mi perdonato, gentle master mine,
Bold, quick, ingenious, forward, capable
To crouch in litter of your stable planks,
none to guard it but boys.
acre of barren ground, long heath, brown furze, any
Let us look in; the sight will much delight thee.
madman: fie on him!
The ambassadors from Norway, my good lord,
Exit Chamberlain; and KING HENRY VIII draws the curtain, and sits reading pensively
Have you any commission from your lord to negotiate
Good my liege, I come;
of our own behavior,--we make guilty of our
world before he was sent for, yet was his mother
Within her womb; which, for enlargement striving,
My peace we will begin. And, Caius Lucius,
This would have seem'd a period
'Twere better not assay'd: therefore this project
but something
Whether I have been to blame or no, I know not:
Sure, all's effectless; yet nothing we'll omit
resemble you in that. If a Jew wrong a Christian,
Unless thou wouldst grieve quickly. This Posthumus,
Scorn and derision never come in tears:
True; save means to live.
That should be silent: if young Doricles
He talks of wood: it is some carpenter.
How now, fair shepherd!
Is fit for treasons, stratagems and spoils;
And I proclaim'd a coward through the world!
So great weight in his lightness. If he fill'd
Where you shall host: of enjoin'd penitents
He owes nine thousand; besides my former sum,
Renowned for their deeds as far from home,
To make your speed to Dover, you shall find
Their savage eyes turn'd to a modest gaze
Nay, we shall heat you thoroughly anon.
And therefore know how far I may be pitied.
And with hot irons must I burn them out.
I have done the deed. Didst thou not hear a noise?
I'll keep you company.
That he would labour my delivery.
Away, and talk not; trouble us no more.
As good as we?
'Peace, tawny slave, half me and half thy dam!
Ten times more gentle than her father's crabbed,
'If this fall into thy hand, revolve. In my stars I
Do you see nothing there?
No, no; 'tis all men's office to speak patience
There's not a one of them but in his house
Hath it been owed and worn. This is his wife;
Sir, I am made
How long is't since she went to Milford-Haven?
At least two glasses. The time 'twixt six and now
What villain madam?
If this be known to you and your allowance,
La main, de hand; les doigts, de fingres. Je pense
Until my lord's return: for mine own part,
because they say, ''Od's nouns.'
complaint they have to the king concerns him
That a maiden's heart hath burn'd?
for worms. But I'll go search the market.
In this so never-needed help, yet do not
Let in the maid, that out a maid
So easily open?
without cause, mistress, do I?
Ay, and what I do too: look thee, I'll but lean,
Well, I will for refuge straight to Bristol castle:
She that doth fast till you come home to dinner,
He leaves his friends to dignify them more,
Do so. Between nine and ten, sayest thou?
They sale of offices and towns in France,
Why, Helen, thou shalt have my leave and love,
Alas, a crimson river of warm blood,
By this means shall we sound what skill she hath.
For new-made honour doth forget men's names;
And his unbookish jealousy must construe
Ours is the fall, I fear; our foes the snare.
Like free and honest men, our just opinions
Haply you shall not see me more; or if,
Follow me.
Because thou see'st me dote upon my love.
Depending on their brands.
I'll have no husband, if you be not he:
Still me?
You sent me for a rope's end as soon:
Then wherefore dost thou hope he is not shipp'd?
We will have vengeance for it, fear thou not:
To anger him we'll have the bear again; and we will
That's a lie in thy throat. I charge you in his
You that love me and Warwick, follow me.
Then know that I have little wealth to lose:
Let it be so. Say, where will you assault?
Would they were multitudes, and on my head
You are dull, Casca, and those sparks of life
If of my freedom 'tis the main part, take
for mine honour, and have respect to mine honour, that
I will, as 'twere a brother of your order,
[Within]  By my troth, your town is troubled with
Come your ways; follow me.
Shall understand it presently.
That they will guard you, whether you will or no,
I could have given less matter
O then belike she was old and gentle; and you rode,
Kind gentlemen, let's go see poor Cassio dress'd.
Such as would please: 'tis gone, 'tis gone, 'tis gone:
What's mine is yours and what is yours is mine.
But there is never a fair woman has a true face.
Sleeps
SCENE II. The same. The council-chamber.
[Aside]  One of Lord Timon's men? a gift, I
of fourteen; I have known thee already.
The natural gates and alleys of the body,
To BRUTUS
When first this order was ordain'd, my lords,
For a taste:
Fie, Joan, that thou wilt be so obstacle!
To be invested.
What mean you, sir,
You are such a woman! one knows not at what ward you
Wherein necessity, of matter beggar'd,
Trust to thy single virtue; for thy soldiers,
Master Brook, I will be thrown into Etna, as I have
I thank you most for him.
Within me grief hath kept a tedious fast;
But 'tis that miracle and queen of gems
Let it alone; let's to billiards: come, Charmian.
Yet do thy cheeks look red as Titan's face
A cockatrice hast thou hatch'd to the world,
To none but thee; no more, but when to thee.
Exeunt QUINCE, SNUG, FLUTE, SNOUT, and STARVELING
Should dying men flatter with those that live?
die a bachelor, I did not think I should live till I
Ay, ay; I must bear it.
Come hither from the furrow and be merry:
reformation. There shall be in England seven
What says Lord Warwick? shall we after them?
shirts and smocks, socks, foul stockings, greasy
Yet, notwithstanding such a strait edict,
To LUCIO
Enter CORIOLANUS
Yet mark'd I where the bolt of Cupid fell:
My fame is shrewdly gored.
Villains, you did not so, when your vile daggers
Would she begin a sect, might quench the zeal
To be commenced in strands afar remote.
Is it mine, or Valentine's praise,
And show'd how well you love your prince and country:
This is against our pleasure.
for the name of king? To cabin: silence! trouble us not.
hope his honour will conceive the fairest of me,
That you a world of curses undergo,
Are partners in the business.
Be not afraid, good youth, I will not have you:
And set mine eyes at flow.
Where shall we take a purse tomorrow, Jack?
What, that my leg is too long?
Go with me to a notary, seal me there
Forbear sharp speeches to her: she's a lady
And target. Still he mends;
Yes.
Shall lose his head for his presumption.
Did move your greatness and this noble state
Where lie my maiden weeds; by whose gentle help
Orlando doth commend him to you both,
A banquet prepared. Enter MACBETH, LADY MACBETH, ROSS, LENNOX, Lords, and Attendants
Shall I tell you a thing?
With his mail'd hand then wiping, forth he goes,
very good, i' faith. I sent thee sixpence for thy
This health to Lepidus!
Between you I shall have a holy head.
Exit EMILIA
And go along with him!
Thou hast undone thyself, thy son and me;
By this alliance to make void my suit:
And made me almost yield upon my knees.
Enter HOTSPUR and DOUGLAS
I'll give no blemish to her honour, none.
Art thou a man? thy form cries out thou art:
That, when they shall be open'd, black Macbeth
SCENE IV. The same. Hall in the palace.
Give me my Romeo; and, when he shall die,
With horns, as was Actaeon's; and the hounds
How!
And I another.
Shall she live to betray this guilt of ours,
Coy looks with heart-sore sighs; one fading moment's mirth
By spying and avoiding fortune's malice,
Whilst bloody treason flourish'd over us.
matter: an old man, sir, and his wits are not so
To the Propontic and the Hellespont,
More than in your addition.
They are all couched in a pit hard by Herne's oak,
What here you've heard to her.
Deep, hollow, treacherous, and full of guile,
Sweat drops of gallant youth in our rich fields!
I'll give you boot, I'll give you three for one.
Even in the spring of love, thy love-springs rot?
No settled senses of the world can match
Enter LEONATO, HERO, and BEATRICE, with a Messenger
Why, well.
cock, with your comb on.
Enter a Messenger
Hope I may choose, sir.
My lord?
Than doth a rich embroider'd canopy
For truth's sake and his conscience; that his bones,
That stain'd their fetlocks in his smoking blood,
And what your pleasure is, shall satisfy me.
Inspire us with the spleen of fiery dragons!
A se'nnight's speed. Great Jove, Othello guard,
What, hast thou dined? The tailor stays thy leisure,
To strew him o'er and o'er!
good manners; if thou never sawest good manners,
For thee to fight,    JOHN FALSTAFF'
Outcast of Naples, England's bloody scourge!
Peace, Grumio! it is the rival of my love.
Whilst you abide here.
In such a night
For in the temple by and by with us
him in excellence; but, to know a man well, were to
This sword shall prove he's honour's enemy.
Whose friend in justice thou hast ever been,
Thou hast neither heat, affection, limb, nor beauty,
Mine was secure.
Did verily bear blood?
A parley sounded
Hath made me rig my navy; at whose burthen
Confounded be thyself! Speak not, be gone.
Thou givest me somewhat to repair myself;
Without the sensible and true avouch
To hold you in perpetual amity,
Well, sir, for want of other idleness, I'll bide your proof.
Words against me? this is a good friar, belike!
Think, we had mothers; do not give advantage
I should fight withal, if he be alive.
ANTIPHOLUS
I think that one of them is hereabout,
Conduct me to mine host: we love him highly,
blow us. There was a haberdasher's wife of small
In execution.
Enlarged him and made a friend of him,
Wherein you dress'd yourself? hath it slept since?
He seem'd to find his way without his eyes;
constancy put to sea, that their business might be
Would serve your turns.
SCENE II. The same.
And strew'd repentent ashes on his head.
O, out of that 'no hope'
In this I bury all unkindness, Cassius.
Here, thou incestuous, murderous, damned Dane,
He hath spoken true: the very dice obey him;
Let me be punish'd, that have minded you
rather, ostentare, to show, as it were, his
him.
Of sallies and retires, of trenches, tents,
The king doth smile at; and is well prepared
Is she not apt?
And clap thyself my love: then didst thou utter
All furnish'd, all in arms;
And we will all subscribe to thy advice:
Of my Lord Hastings' late imprisonment.
The love that follows us sometime is our trouble,
We'll hear him, we'll follow him, we'll die with him.
good parts, a secret and villanous contriver against
And, in advantage lingering, looks for rescue,
'Odours,' 'pregnant' and 'vouchsafed:' I'll get 'em
The cause betwixt her and this great offender.
Wretched shall France be only in my name.
But be as Ajax.
'Tis nobly spoken:
Sooner than quittance of desert and merit
Mark Antony I served, who best was worthy
but little happy, if I could say how much. Lady, as
Why should I war without the walls of Troy,
Foh, foh! adieu; you palter.
For husbands, fathers and betrothed lovers,
My lord, do you see these meteors? do you behold
I that am cruel am yet merciful;
Bardolph, be blithe: Nym, rouse thy vaunting veins:
Hath he a sister?
For I can smooth and fill his aged ear
That here come sacrifices for the field:
Were you well served, you would be taught your duty.
players as ever I see!
Once, and a million!
Brutus is wise, and, were he not in health,
our fortunes from us till our oldness cannot relish
The clamorous owl that nightly hoots and wonders
And if he hear thee, thou wilt anger him.
As in your royal speech.
I pray you, will you take him by the arm?
Who lives and dares but say thou didst not well
A vapour sometime like a bear or lion,
Not I, my lord.
Who should that be? belike, unlook'd-for friends.
Strikes his breast hard, and anon he casts
At large discoursed in this paper here.
At nine i' the morning here we'll meet again.
Why should I not now have the like success?
Mars what it does; yea, very force entangles
Was this before the king return'd?
Dolphin my boy, my boy, sessa! let him trot by.
SCENE V. Juliet's chamber.
Exeunt
fool's bolt is soon shot.'
Before the times of change, still is it so:
but I dote on his very absence, and I pray God grant
I got a promise of this fair one here
Is he not honest?
Let me shake thy hand;
Air
and a lanthorn, and say he comes to disfigure, or to
I do not find that thou dealest justly with me.
Why, then, let a soldier drink.
Want no Mistress Ford, Master Brook; you shall want
No notes of sally, for the heavens, sweet brother.
Make thee a fortune from me.
Sit, worthy friends: my lord is often thus,
But we that know what 'tis to fast and pray
Thou know'st no less but all; I have unclasp'd
A man who is the abstract of all faults
I'll venture so much of my hawk or hound,
You have drawn oaths from him not to stay. You, sir,
And strike you home without a messenger.
too rough;
Tell me, good grandam, is our father dead?
It is, 'Great,' sir:--
Confess, confess, hath he not hit you here?
Thou hast not loved.
All that impedes thee from the golden round,
To know his pleasure; and in that behalf,
Opposing laws with strokes and here defying
Had the full view of, such a noise arose
We'll call thee at the cubiculo: go.
But she received my dog?
Exit
Yes, other men have ill luck too: Antonio, as I
Herself and hers are highly bound to thee.
Claudio; and bring them to see this the very night
If he should still malignantly remain
Now do you know the reason of this haste.
O, well-a-day, that ever I was born!
Would it were mortal poison, for thy sake!
Unless it be to think that she is by
And never mayst thou come Lysander near!
Exit
I will not meet with you to-morrow night:
Upon the grassy carpet of this plain.
Exeunt
Moreover, he hath left you all his walks,
As thriftless sons their scraping fathers' gold.
[Within]  What, ho! Peace here; grace and good company!
liberty, these are the only men.
CYMBELINE
Bloody thou art, bloody will be thy end;
One that old Frederick, your father, loves.
I swear I'll cuff you, if you strike again.
Tell him his fears are shallow, wanting instance:
Till France be won into the Dauphin's hands:
I know the knight is incensed against you, even to a
her coffin! No news of them? Why, so: and I know
inherits, which makes fair gifts fairer; for where
Now, justice on the doers!
Near twenty years ago, in Genoa,
And in this borrow'd likeness of shrunk death
extracted from many objects, and indeed the sundry's
By inches waste you: in which time she purposed,
O, I am fortune's fool!
plague break thy neck for frightening me! What's
Then I salute you with this kingly title:
There's another: why may not that be the skull of a
The doctor is well money'd, and his friends
Marry, 'tis not monstrous in you, neither wish I
My brother slew no man; his fault was thought,
My lord of Kent: remember him hereafter as my
Exit HERMIONE, guarded; with Ladies
Methinks I do.
speaks holiday, he smells April and May: he will
Yet glance full wanderingly on us.
Aunchient Pistol, I do partly understand your meaning.
Enter SHYLOCK and LAUNCELOT
her rise from her bed, throw her night-gown upon
And, but that great command o'ersways the order,
Which holds not colour with the time, nor does
And here's to right our gentle-hearted king.
I'll take it from thee; and, good boy, good night.
her education promises; her dispositions she
Be patient, lords; and give them leave to speak.
eye upon the pernicious and indubitate beggar
Advise yourself.
Father, you cannot disinherit me:
Fiery? what quality? Why, Gloucester, Gloucester,
Teems, and feeds all; whose self-same mettle,
PROLOGUE
Enter a Servant
Exeunt
Dare no man answer in a case of truth?
me a piece of marchpane; and, as thou lovest me, let
The Constable of France.
the marking of it.
Enough.
Without much fall of blood; whose guiltless drops
Muster your wits; stand in your own defence;
My tongue shall hush again this storm of war
May live at peace. He shall conceal it
For mine own part,
I'll humbly signify what in his name,
more money.
the benefit of sleep, and do the effects of
Ay, if the devil tempt thee to do good.
This weak impress of love is as a figure
I pray thee, cease thy counsel,
Where every something, being blent together,
Of gleaning all the land's wealth into one,
With soft low tongue and lowly courtesy,
Those of his chamber, as it seem'd, had done 't:
'Tis well, sir, that you hunted for yourself:
charity, whom the foul fiend vexes: there could I
The Hyrcanian deserts and the vasty wilds
Now.
Thou hast spoke for us, madonna, as if thy eldest
That thus you should proceed to put me off,
garden where leeks did grow, wearing leeks in their
I'll do my best, sir.
heavy: ask my Lady Beatrice else; here she comes.
Reproach and dissolution hangeth over him.
That with your strange encounter much amazed me,
Both which, master constable,--
What tellest thou me of black and blue? I was
I shall accept them fairly; let the presents
Of Pisa, sir; son to Vincentio.
discipline come not near thee! Let thy blood be thy
Took up a beggar's issue at my gates,
Ay, here's a deer whose skin's a keeper's fee:
A mighty and a fearful head they are,
Be ready, Claudio, for your death tomorrow.
And once again, a pot o' the smallest ale.
all the world to be cowards; for I, that never
Would it apply well to the vehemency of your
And make this marriage to be solemnized.
proved, wit! By the Lord, this love is as mad as
It was a worthy building. How! a page!
ACT II
Thou mine of bounty, how wouldst thou have paid
O wonderful son, that can so astonish a mother! But
Your virtue is my privilege: for that
Propose the oath, my lord.
But to be commanded
Madam, I will.
Post speedily to my lord your husband; show him
HOLOFERNES retires
therefore I must cast it up.
If I loved many words, lord, I should tell you
Forbear, and eat no more.
Whose veins bound richer blood than Lady Blanch?
thousand, and five hundred too.
Come, is the bride ready to go to church?
A gracious king that pardons all offences
In place of Lord Bassanio and myself.
I am solicited, not by a few,
What! doth my uncle Burgundy revolt?
Look, therefore, Lewis, that by this league and marriage
It is not friendly, 'tis not maidenly:
Out, alas!
And be a happy mother by the deed.
Nay, come, agree whose hand shall go along,
Alas, poor women! make us but believe,
almost spent; I have been to-night exceedingly well
If I should be! I had rather be a pedlar:
PROLOGUE
I'll gladly learn.
You'll not bear a letter for me, you rogue! you
Well, my good lord, I have inform'd them so.
Did you ever hear the like?
O Pomfret, Pomfret! O thou bloody prison,
I will come home to you; or, if you will,
Enter DON JOHN and CONRADE
Wisdom and goodness to the vile seem vile:
You may see, Lepidus, and henceforth know,
Decoct their cold blood to such valiant heat?
We wait for certain money here, sir.
You are most bound to the king,
That metal, that self-mould, that fashion'd thee
Here is a friar, that trembles, sighs and weeps:
Fall'n into taint: which to believe of her,
conscience, I should stay with the Jew my master,
Slaver with lips as common as the stairs
So, leave him all. Well, my companion friends,
Call for some men of sound direction
When I have deck'd the sea with drops full salt,
Thou sayest true: 'tis not our bringing up of poor
The master of the cross-bows, Lord Rambures;
Pray now, no more: my mother,
I had thought, sir, to have held my peace until
called which I apprehended with the aforesaid
Come your ways, sir; come.
Hamlet is of the faction that is wrong'd;
What I should think of this, I cannot tell:
Have benched and reared to worship, who mayst see
Let him depart; his passport shall be made
sigh gratis; the humourous man shall end his part
Therefore the office is indifferent,
That never touch well welcome to thy hand,
They may astonish these fell-lurking curs:
And kneel, sweet boy, the Roman Hector's hope;
How dost thou, Benedick, the married man?
Ourselves to be the slaves of chance and flies
Of things to come at large. It is supposed
Lord, how we lose our pains!
If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,
Have patience, sir; O, let it not be so!
Most freely I confess, myself and Toby
I can see yet without spectacles and I see no such
And I but dream'd it. As you were past all shame,--
Turn our blown sails; eftsoons I'll tell thee why.
I am so; I do love it better than laughing.
Among which number, Cassius, be you one--
Then how can Margaret be thy paramour?
Is that true? why, then Othello and Desdemona
To strengthen and support King Edward's place.
Then should the warlike Harry, like himself,
If love make me forsworn, how shall I swear to love?
Even on my eaning time; but whether there
Why was my Cressid then so hard to win?
And smell of calumny. I have begun,
I am not guilty of Lysander's blood;
And I would call it, fair play.
Display'd so saucily against your highness,--
Horrible sight! Now, I see, 'tis true;
Good king, great king, and yet not greatly good,
That has no relish of salvation in't;
Of base insinuating flattery
Then he's a rogue, and a passy measures panyn: I
You would say it hath been all in all his study:
With more than common thanks I will receive it.
Why, she hath not writ to me?
Hurt him! his body's a passable carcass, if he be
O gentle lady, do not put me to't;
laboured for the poor gentleman to the extremest
A bawd, sir? fie upon him! he will discredit our mystery.
The king, sir, hath wagered with him six Barbary
Ha! known!
Marry, for that she's in a wrong belief,
By heaven, I love thee better than myself;
The king my father!
Or needs not us. If Caesar please, our master
me!
Worm nor snail, do no offence.
A man who for this three months hath not spoken
never recover.
their tribunes for ever. This lies glowing, I can
Sir, she is mortal;
When Cassio left my wife: what didst not like?
Enter another Carrier
A shrewd turn, if she pleased.
And to him in his barge with fervor hies.
For still 'tis beating in my mind, your reason
But soft, but see, or rather do not see,
A fine musician to instruct our mistress;
They are in action.
Remit thy other forfeits. Take him to prison;
And now what rests but that we spend the time
It sounds no more: and sure, it waits upon
Thou wast not made his daughter; and be thou sorry
hope to see a housewife take thee between her legs
I dare and must deny it. Now I feel
but a kind of hard conscience, to offer to counsel
Many a man his life hath sold
None, I protest: but I'll give you a pottle of
Provide the feast, father, and bid the guests;
Professes to persuade,--the king his son's alive,
One that composed your beauties, yea, and one
Further I will not flatter you, my lord,
For aught I know, my lord, they do.
To plague the inventor: this even-handed justice
My purpose was for Tarsus, there to strike
Would I be guilty of so deep a sin.
For what's more miserable than discontent?
Murder'd sweet Tully; Brutus' bastard hand
O, then, I see, you will part but with light gifts;
I'll tell him of you.
They sit
politic love.
Some to kill cankers in the musk-rose buds,
But, as thou lovest thy life, make speed from hence.
That most are willing. If any such be here--
Where most she satisfies; for vilest things
I true! how now! what wicked deem is this?
And the will dotes that is attributive
These your unusual weeds to each part of you
O villains, Chiron and Demetrius!
No, good madam; I will not out of doors.
O, why should wrath be mute, and fury dumb?
Enter ABRAHAM and BALTHASAR
Up to the elbows, and besmear our swords:
Nor how my father would enforce me marry
hai!
Whose fury not dissembled speaks his griefs:
But, as in health, come to my natural taste,
Immortal gods, I crave no pelf;
best breed in the north. When they were ready to
and vouchsafed ear.
O, he hath kept an evil diet long,
trencher, hence!
All fears attending on so dire a project.
In Oxfordshire shalt muster up thy friends.
Why, that's well said. What colour is my gown of?
hither: I must employ him in a letter to my love.
And sleep an act or two; but those, we fear,
Brother, thou shalt to London presently,
Hence, rotten thing! or I shall shake thy bones
And, to be short, what not, that's sweet and happy?
Upon her great disaster.
Exit, guarded
'Tis but early days.
Come, I have found you out a stand most fit,
ask you what it means, say you this:
O, then, dear saint, let lips do what hands do;
Come, let's be gone.
Amen, so I had mine: is not that a good word?
You depend upon him, I mean?
Foul wrinkled witch, what makest thou in my sight?
Shone down the English; and, to-morrow, they
Most welcome, bondage! for thou art away,
Leaps o'er the vaunt and firstlings of those broils,
Will you be cured of your infirmity?
SCENE I. OLIVIA's garden.
Conjures the wandering stars, and makes them stand
Shallow; and here young Master Slender, that
Who half an hour since came from the Dauphin,
And force the tyrant from his seat by war.
wife within a mile where my land and living lies;
[Aside to POMPEY]  Pompey, a word.
I would to heaven I had your potency,
What, I, my lord? No, not for all the world.
with the fashions, full of wingdalls, sped with
By Bushy, Bagot and their complices,
I would remove these tedious stumbling-blocks
A picture, sir. When comes your book forth?
Whilst I am bound to wonder, I am bound
Shout. CHARLES is thrown
Jove bless thee, master Parson.
Truly then I fear you are damned both by father and
Arm'd, my lord.
They love me well; yet I have much to do
By men of Epidamnum he and I
[Reads]  'This fail you not to do, as you will--'
That I repair to Rome, I am content.
That malice bears down truth. And I beseech you,
Now, by Saint Paul, this news is bad indeed.
Aside, aside; here comes Lord Timon.
Love give me strength! and strength shall help afford.
Faults proper to himself: if he had so offended,
He'll then instruct us of this body. Young one,
Thou wast whelped a dog, and thou shalt famish a
No, when my father York and Edward wept,
Both thanks and use. But I do bend my speech
Tell him the queen hath heartily consented
Which that sweet tongue hath made,
And batters down himself: what should I say?
Madam, your majesty is too much sad:
I neither know it nor can learn of him.
Aside
Deny thy father and refuse thy name;
As thus, 'Come, little ones,' and then again,
And be in Padua here Vincentio's son,
Harry of Hereford, Lancaster and Derby,
Yet grace must still look so.
Enter BAPTISTA
That would I, had I kingdoms to give with her.
And choke their art. The merciless Macdonwald--
See here, my friends and loving countrymen,
If Gloucester be displaced, he'll be protector.
These that survive let Rome reward with love;
To stoop in such a case.
'She loves another'--Who calls, ha?
That she fordid herself.
On plots and errors, happen.
Away from me, and let me hear no more!
Singing
Of my mistress, then.
Myself am struck in years, I must confess;
Nay, nothing; all is said
father brother; and then the prince my brother and
Methinks he looks as though he were in love:
This is the strangest fellow, brother John.
You give away myself, which is known mine;
Enter LADY CAPULET
I'll find a day to massacre them all
Are motives of more fancy; and, in fine,
His judgment too.
Had not their bark been very slow of sail;
Have too a woman's heart; which ever yet
The dead with charity enclosed in clay:
world no injury, for in it I have nothing; only in
Never, my lord.
Why, there's no remedy; 'tis the curse of service,
world but I, and I am sunburnt; I may sit in a
Sir, I am a gentleman that have spent much; my name is Brook.
No, at a word, madam; indeed, I must not. I wish
How fares our gracious lady?
Be not obdurate, open thy deaf ears.
Enter COMINIUS, TITUS LARTIUS, and other Senators; JUNIUS BRUTUS and SICINIUS VELUTUS
Let me speak, sir,
Exeunt COUNTESS and Gentlemen
If I would say, 'Agrippa, be it so,'
LADY MACBETH is carried out
You shall see.
The other eye of Gloucester.
petitionary countrymen. The good gods assuage thy
For which I razed my likeness. Now, banish'd Kent,
For this one wish, that you had power and wealth
shall see wilful adultery and murder committed.
You bear too stubborn and too strange a hand
Beauty and honour in her are so mingled
Say that I did all this for love of her.
I shall be satisfied.
The beggar's nurse and Caesar's.
Any beginning to this peevish odds;
Why did he so?
Madam, a noble gentleman of Rome,
tongues, and my horse is argument for them all:
a lock hanging by it, and borrows money in God's
[To BONA]  And, gracious madam, in our king's behalf,
Good gentlemen, look fresh and merrily;
Both young and old, one with another, Ford;
Exit
Sirs, stop their mouths, let them not speak to me;
Be of comfort;
Whom these things cannot blemish,--yet must Antony
Do we but find the tyrant's power to-night,
No motion of the liver, but the palate,
and yet he would embrace no counsel, take no warning
to your English.
Where Phoebus' fire scarce thaws the icicles,
My heart is not confederate with my hand.
SCENE I. A room in LEONTES' palace.
Besides, our nearness to the king in love
Schoolmasters will I keep within my house,
And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
Madam, now shall ye see
This blot that they object against your house
But since you teach me how to flatter you,
What meanest thou by that? mend me, thou saucy fellow!
Most willingly;
You know neither me, yourselves nor any thing. You
Follow me, then.
Go, gentlemen,
I have lived fourscore years and upward; I never
It's sign she hath been liberal and free.
Will you prick't with your eye?
pleading so well for his life. Away with him! he
That babies lulls asleep! the smiles of knaves
The purple violets, and marigolds,
Re-enter Widow, with HELENA
of it but that she loves him with an enraged
Which God revenge!
O you kind gods,
And take her hearing prisoner with the force
for he, being in love, could not see to garter his
Enter MELUN, wounded
This wooden slavery than to suffer
of your marriage as to show a child his new coat
Hath kept with thy remembrance.
Made impudent with use of evil deeds,
her to trial. Thine, in all compliments of devoted
O, negligent and heedless discipline!
My gracious liege, when that my father lived,
Their tenor good, I trust.
Enter GLOUCESTER
brains. I will fetch you light and paper and ink.
What treasure, uncle?
For certain friends that are both his and mine,
Hector! the gods forbid!
Bedford, if thou be slack, I'll fight it out.
no money of me; but being enthralled as I am, it
O time! thou must untangle this, not I;
As beaten hence by your strange lunacy.
And bids you be advised there's nought in France
I come to talk of commonwealth affairs.
Go, Philostrate,
That which combined us was most great, and let not
[To EDMUND]  Let the drum strike, and prove my title thine.
A shepherd's daughter.
That the malevolence of fortune nothing
An if your wife be not a mad-woman,
And none but tyrants use it cruelly.
But that my master rather play'd than fought
A plot shall show us all a merry day.
What should he be?
They would not thread the gates. This kind of service
Cannot be ill, cannot be good: if ill,
For our advantage on the bitter cross.
Why then for Venus' sake, give me a kiss,
and thou art as full of envy at his greatness as
Had he been ta'en, we should have heard the news;
Exeunt FERDINAND, Lords, and Blackamoors
When truth kills truth, O devilish-holy fray!
Where is she?
Unless the adage must be verified,
Could say 'This is my wife' there; all were woven
to a husband we set his youngest free for a husband,
Exit DENNY
So will I	if he come under my hatches, I'll never
Who woo'd in haste and means to wed at leisure.
Had graced the tender temples of my child,
We hate alike:
Yea, say you so?
Well, be't so, prithee.
SPRING.
I do beseech you, either not believe
Such as I am, I come from Antony:
That not your trespass, but my madness speaks:
Take this purse of gold,
As if thou never walk'st further than Finsbury.
That come before the swallow dares, and take
Thou must run to him, for thou hast stayed so long
They sleep
And by their hands this grace of kings must die,
To say you're welcome were superfluous.
He is but one: you and my brother search
Well, then, imprison him: if imprisonment be the
ACT I
That I gainsay my deed, how may he wound,
As blanks, benevolences, and I wot not what:
And crowns for convoy put into his purse:
into the ford; I have my belly full of ford.
Through this palace, with sweet peace;
But whether I be as true begot or no,
Exeunt
Be heap'd like mine and that thy skill be more
Gives not the hawthorn-bush a sweeter shade
Lest this great sea of joys rushing upon me
Now Valentine is banish'd from her sight.
Maid's mild behavior and sobriety.
On the unsteadfast footing of a spear.
A more sounder instance, come.
Speak on:
Thou and my bosom henceforth shall be twain.
Marry, I thank your good worship for it. What is't
Hath drawn him from his own determined aid,
Something too liberal. Pray thee, take pain
Change the complexion of her maid-pale peace
I'll look you out a good turn, Servilius.
And live a subject? Nay, forsooth, my friends,
Ay, ay, my liege;
There is an aunchient lieutenant there at the
Come, come, enter my tent.
Presently we'll try: come, let's away about it:
Would Katharina had never seen him though!
Of good Polixenes; and my ground to do't
And in the sentence my own life destroy'd.
My gracious lord, here in the parliament
Among them know you one Vincentio?
Master constable,--
Had I thy youth and cause, I would not stay.
ACT I
And his device, a wreath of chivalry;
My ashes, as the phoenix, may bring forth
for him, that he hath wrote this to feel my
Ay, that I will; and I'll be wise hereafter
the streets, and at every corner have them kiss. Away!
Good morrow, father.
by the figure, and such daubery as this is, beyond
This gentle offer of the perilous time.
Fetch't, let me see't.
We are too well acquainted with these answers:
I evermore did love you, Hermia,
To Desdemona hath to-night caroused
Reads
And liquor likewise will I give to thee,
Nor arm, nor face, nor any other part
Why, my sweet lord?
Anne Bullen! No; I'll no Anne Bullens for him:
Of every realm, that did debate this business,
This evening must I leave you, gentle Kate.
Your native town you enter'd like a post,
Where love's strong passion is impress'd in youth:
To smother up his beauty from the world,
Because I will be guiltless of the meaning.
You have made
But how of Cawdor? the thane of Cawdor lives,
God keep your lordship in that gracious mind!
Are these your herd?
go to, no more; lest it be rather thought you affect
[To FERDINAND and MIRANDA]  Give me your hands:
right, because he hath not the gift to woo in other
I see virtue in his looks. If then the tree may be
Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do;'
This present object made probation.
Leave your prabbles, 'oman. What is the focative
Hear me, Sir Thomas: you're a gentleman
Worthies, away! the scene begins to cloud.
My army but a weak and sickly guard;
For Orpheus' lute was strung with poets' sinews,
Your voices therefore.' When we granted that,
The offer likes not: and the nimble gunner
Where I have learn'd me to repent the sin
Leap o'er the walls for refuge in the field.
We are men, my liege.
If on my credit you dare build so far
Would be unparallel'd.
Their several kinds have done. My high charms work
No.
Plead for our interest and our being here.
What says he to your daughter? have you spoke?
Of divers witnesses; which the duke desired
Or lose my labour in assaying it.
Harmless Richard was murder'd traitorously.
What a vice were it in Ajax now,--
Been justled from your senses, know for certain
[Kneeling]
Fellow thou, awake!
Of Blithild, which was daughter to King Clothair,
If any order might be thought upon.
O, that a man should speak those words to me!
wit, together with most weak hams: all which, sir,
Would set me free from this unhallow'd place,
I am glad, though you have ta'en a special stand to
Want similes, truth tired with iteration,
that keeping for a gentleman of my birth, that
Indeed he hath played on his prologue like a child
Does Bridget paint still, Pompey, ha?
You should not use me so.
But by my ruin.
so that here men are punished for before-breach of
Sir, I know not how I may deserve to be your porter.
An alarum. Re-enter TALBOT, BURGUNDY, and the rest
Saint Davy's day is past.
Those be rubies, fairy favours,
That's certain: I, for my part, knew the tailor
and so near will I be,
My lord!
To take a tedious leave: thus losers part.
I will deny thee nothing:
thou canst: if sanctimony and a frail vow betwixt
Speechless complainer, I will learn thy thought;
remember me, his name is Falstaff: if that man
One Hero died defiled, but I do live,
More criminal in thee than it,--so thou
An indistinct regard.
By her election may be truly read
If I confess much, you will play the tyrant.
Is this an hour for temporal affairs, ha?
Saints m your injuries, devils being offended,
'Tis pity she's not honest, honourable:'
Lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts.
The story of that baleful burning night
Have been deceived; they swore you did.
Mistress of passion, sways it to the mood
The patroness of heavenly harmony:
More than to Richmond?  for the selfsame heaven
Falstaff, and laugh at Page. I will about it;
and horror of it: pray you, away.
upon too trivial motion; one that converses more
Can set the duke up in despite of me.
Comes to the privy coffer of the state;
O, now I want the priest that spake to me:
With fatal mouths gaping on girded Harfleur.
Be full expired. Thanks, uncle Winchester,
That will be damn'd for't; would I knew the villain,
Our youngest born, I could as well be brought
His arms are only to remove from thee
Which makes me fear the enjoying of my love:
I am not yet instructed.
No more of him; for I will deal with him
But thou shalt hear it: whistle then to me,
He is a soldier fit to stand by Caesar
Sirrah, hast thou a knife? come, let me see it.
Within my sword's length set him; if he 'scape,
conscience, this one christening will beget a
She says it is a fair one.
Queen Margaret, Prince Edward, and Oxford,
Rather than Paris. These are news indeed!
it.
That haunted us in our familiar paths:
And have no portion in the choice myself.
they always use to laugh at nothing.
Who dares not stand his foe, I'll be his friend;
All at one cast? to set so rich a main
Only she comes too short: that I profess
Burning, scalding, stench, consumption; fie,
Yet now farewell; and farewell life with thee!
Madman, thou errest: I say, there is no darkness
Caesar? art thou led in triumph? What, is there
Thou hadst been better have been born a dog
discourse, an excellent musician, and her hair shall
Of her o'er-eaten faith, are bound to Diomed.
guard:--first, I must tell thee this--Desdemona is
whence you had it.
We will bear home that lusty blood again
Ay. Fare you well, fair gentleman.
The gods forbid!
equally to me disloyal.'
Entreated me to call and know her mind:
Of all rejoindure, forcibly prevents
With heigh! with heigh! the thrush and the jay,
Thou pout'st upon thy fortune and thy love:
But here comes Antony.
On whom there is no more dependency
The cicatrice and capable impressure
SCENE II. Rome. An ante-chamber in OCTAVIUS CAESAR's house.
You sacrifice your tears, your sighs, your heart:
Poor boy! he smiles, methinks, as who should say,
And bring him to our eye.
sooner knew the reason but they sought the remedy;
be in that mind.
'Tis not unknown to you, Antonio,
Then will I lay the serving-creature's dagger on
We have with a leaven'd and prepared choice
Straight shall our nuptial rites be solemnized:
leur noces, il n'est pas la coutume de France.
That I might love thee something.
What like, offensive.
I myself reprehend his own person, for I am his
Let Rome be thus Inform'd.
Why, that word makes the faults gracious. Well,
That cannot so much as a blossom yield
against it with my life.
Achilles hath inveigled his fool from him.
I have fled myself; and have instructed cowards
With hey, ho, the wind and the rain,
Do we, my lord?
simpleness; she derives her honesty and achieves her goodness.
Out of the weak door of our fainting land.
And bring along these rascal knaves with thee?
shall I be revenged on him? for revenged I will be,
When, after execution, judgment hath
To your high presence.
Not that I have the power to clutch my hand,
So tell your cousin, and bring me word
How do you, gentlemen?
When the man dies, let the inheritance
Her reason to herself is only known,
I will not struggle, I will stand stone-still.
And sped you, sir?
Than crave the hire which first we do deserve.
chamber-window, bids me a thousand times good
Tear him for his bad verses, tear him for his bad verses.
Ajax commands the guard to tend on you.
HERMIONE swoons
[Within]  Peace, ho, be here!
Frown on, you heavens, effect your rage with speed!
And Robin shall restore amends.
That I did so when I was first assured.
Will the king come, that I may breathe my last
Do you confess so much? Give me your hand.
You chose her; then I'ld shriek, that even your ears
Seem'd Athens as a paradise to me:
Exeunt
The gods do this in shame of cowardice:
perplexity, yet did not this cruel-hearted cur shed
Leads discontented steps in foreign soil,
And 'tis the very riches of thyself
Profaning this most honourable order,
Immediate sentence then and sequent death
Romans, of five and twenty valiant sons,
His tears proclaim'd his, parting with her: thence,
That you insult, exult, and all at once,
have a foreknowledge of that too, and therefore
Enter BASSANIO, with LEONARDO and other followers
Why, I can teach you, cousin, to command
But to relieve them of their heavy load;
Whose state so many had the managing,
By heaven, these scroyles of Angiers flout you, kings,
Open the gates, and let me in.
This mould of Marcius, they to dust should grind it
Rescue those breathing lives to die in beds,
I have it not.
When they are thirsty, fools would fain have drink.
I am your butt, and I abide your shot.
I have so: what of him?
I understand thy kisses and thou mine,
Nor yet Saint Philip's daughters, were like thee.
To have command obey'd.
And I'll keep London with my soldiers.
Go in to him, and fetch him out.
I care not.
By long and vehement suit I was seduced
Hark ye; not so: in witness, take ye that.
Whose tongue shall ask me for one penny cost
By heaven, it is the same I gave the doctor!
Madam, 's enough for you:
use her as the key of the cuckoldly rogue's coffer;
O, you and I have heard our fathers say,
in the stable.
Thunder. Enter the three Witches
It may well be called Jove's tree, when it drops
SCENE I. Milan. The DUKE's palace.
Could turn so much the constitution
Then tell me, whither were I best to send him?
No, by my troth, my lord.
Whence honour but of danger wins a scar,
Doth your highness call?
Lest zeal, now melted by the windy breath
Of thy devotion and right Christian zeal.
For virtue's office never breaks men's troth.
I warrant thee. Meet me by and by at the citadel:
A son of mine, which long I have not seen.
I might do't as well i' the dark.
female; or, for thy more sweet understanding, a
The very soul, and sweet religion makes
For, ere the ships could meet by twice five leagues,
What here shall miss, our toil shall strive to mend.
If I my lord, for my opinion bleed,
As the weird women promised, and, I fear,
Not so hot, good sir:
have answered to his reputation with the duke and to
Enter HECTOR
Men's flesh preserved so whole do seldom win.
To make you garlands of, and my sweet friend,
His discretion, I am sure, cannot carry his valour;
perdona-mi's, who stand so much on the new form,
Lay with you in your coffer: which are now
Exeunt all but BRUTUS
Doth my lord call?
For happy wedlock hours.
When Marcus Brutus grows so covetous,
As my ripe revenue and due by birth
Wert thou the Hector
'Was' is not 'is:' besides, the oath of a lover is
Which gives the stern'st good-night. He is about it:
Therefore, go speak: the duke will hear thy voice:
There I have another bad match: a bankrupt, a
Thou darest not say so, villain, for thy life.
The which if you with patient ears attend,
glover's paring-knife?
When in your motion you are hot and dry--
Singing
But that still use of grief makes wild grief tame,
I will discharge my bond and thank you too.
I'll point you where you shall have such receiving
That idles in the wanton summer air,
Let's part the word.
tear a cat in, to make all split.
distract it with many, either to have it sterile
thou what thou art, by art as well as by nature:
We will have, if this fadge not, an antique. I
Your mind from feasting. Sooth, when I was young
With gentle travail, to the gladding of
More counsel with more money, bounteous Timon.
Exit
But, with a crafty madness, keeps aloof,
But yield me to the veriest hind that shall
So, by a roaring tempest on the flood,
To Epidamnum; till my factor's death
And not where I had aim'd them.
Nay, if they lead to any ill, I will leave them at
To suffer, with a quietness of spirit,
cried 'Have patience, good people!'
Come, Grey, come, Vaughan, let us all embrace:
For we have now no thought in us but France,
The gods can have no mortal officer
The contents of this is the return of the duke: you
A many of our bodies shall no doubt
Let me alone with him.
[Aside]  I'll meet you at the turn. What a
We must both give and take, my gracious lord.
What comfort to this great decay may come
There was never a truer rhyme. Let us cast away
The malice towards you to forgive you: live,
Boskos vauvado: I understand thee, and can speak
events in the womb of time which will be delivered.
Than some that have accused them wear their hats.
That thou wilt use the wars as thy redress
the night than to fern-seed for your walking invisible.
Finding thee fit for bloody villany,
Disdainful to be tried by't: 'tis not well.
I dare not, dear,--
And hide me with a dead man in his shroud;
If your peevish chastity, which is not worth a
He's as tall a man as any's in Illyria.
from the world! What corruption in this life, that
Sit you down, father; rest you
The skilful shepherd peel'd me certain wands,
Thou must.
would scarcely allay.
Of each new-hatch'd, unfledged comrade. Beware
Come place him here by me,
And make him proud to make me proud that jests!
Nor for yours neither. You've ungently, Brutus,
break their hearts but they will effect. God be
Than whom no mortal so magnificent!
No, to the death, we will not move a foot;
But since I cannot, be it known to you
By my trot, I tarry too long. Od's me!
Enter CARDINAL WOLSEY and CARDINAL CAMPEIUS
With such a suffering, such a deadly life,
[Aside]  She shines not upon fools, lest the
Invite me to a banquet; whose bright faces
Let not to-morrow then ensue to-day;
For what they have been: 'tis a cruelty
Exit
The sixth of July: Your loving friend, Benedick.
I must be laugh'd at,
which is called true is so like an old tale, that
to a wrangling knave, as the nun's lip to the
Could you not take some occasion without giving?
And not a man of them that we shall take
To win the king as I am bold her honour
Exit
Hector was gone, but Helen was not up.
Frighted, and anger'd worse: go bid my woman
Some merry mocking lord, belike; is't so?
And by that name must die: yet, heaven bear witness,
When you shall these unlucky deeds relate,
I'll put myself in poor and mean attire
The queen, and princess.
And range with humble livers in content,
Let sorrow split my heart, if ever I
Thunder
If wisdom be in suffering. O my lords,
Whose welcome, I perceived, had poison'd mine,--
the world I fill up a place, which may be better
And all my armour laid into my tent?
Among the route of nations, I will make thee
Our son shall win.
constable's wife any harm? I would know that of
'Twixt two such shes would chatter this way and
But now, Baptists, to your younger daughter:
Mort de ma vie! all is confounded, all!
Englishman. Scurvy jack-dog priest! by gar, me
'Tis a good form.
Nay, do not fright us with an angry look;
Exit Messenger
Where is Achilles?
With unchaste purpose and with oath to violate
Fie, what a spendthrift is he of his tongue!
his fortune, his fortune! O, let him marry a woman
And bear him home for his recovery.
My stern effects: then what I have to do
Go you, and call my fool hither.
shall be honourable. I'll procure this fat rogue a
What, shall a child instruct you what to do?
With words that made them known. But thy vile race,
Then do we sin against our own estate,
And so, I take my leave, and thank you both.
Must your bold verdict enter talk with lords?'
Subjects may challenge nothing of their sovereigns;
And sometime comes she with a tithe-pig's tail
The better.
Say thy prayers, and farewell.
Now put it, God, in the physician's mind
The spring is near when green geese are a-breeding.
I think this tale would win my daughter too.
If consequence do but approve my dream,
Marry, well bethought:
They have bereft; and do pronounce by me:
Too hideous to be shown. Thou dost mean something:
Ay, Marcius, Caius Marcius: dost thou think
Of your best graces in your mind; the which
Padua affords this kindness, son Petruchio.
To walk this way: I never do him wrong,
Upon malicious bravery, dost thou come
Upon his palm!--How now, you wanton calf!
O graceless men! they know not what they do.
Madam, I was thinking with what manners I might
Ay, kennel, puddle, sink; whose filth and dirt
For fear you ne'er see chain nor money more.
A sick man's appetite, who desires most that
ward to the son, and the son manage his revenue.
Your uncle Worcester's horse came but today;
Nay, but swear't.
Shall top the legitimate. I grow; I prosper:
into whom nature hath so crowded humours that his
In private, then.
Why, he is so made on here within, as if he were son
to the world's end will have bald followers.
beggar dwell near him; or, the church stands by thy
Exit DOLABELLA
Lord Angelo? they have confessed you did.
you take it not patiently, why, your mettle is the
And York as fast upon your grace exclaims;
So sways she level in her husband's heart:
Under a cloak that is of any length.
And I, most jocund, apt and willingly,
As we are mock'd with art.
As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note;
Against an oath: the truth thou art unsure
'Love like a shadow flies when substance love pursues;
That with such vehemency he should pursue
SCENE II. Padua. Before BAPTISTA'S house.
Yet to be known shortens my made intent:
To gnaw their garners. Worshipful mutiners,
Hath put himself in arms: the adverse winds,
Tell thee, Macduff was from his mother's womb
Say, Wolsey, that once trod the ways of glory,
And such a one as he, who puts his 'shall,'
Enter GLOUCESTER aloft, between two Bishops. CATESBY returns
Know you any, count?
canst thou? a red murrain o' thy jade's tricks!
Why stand we like soft-hearted women here,
Begin, sir; you are my elder.
performances are no kin together.
As she is stubborn-chaste against all suit.
Either be ruled by me, or I will make you--
Out of his envy's reach, I do oppose
And here is come to do some villanous shame
witness of this: therefore I beseech your majesty,
Thou monstrous slanderer of heaven and earth!
In earnest of further benefit,
Matter against me; and his eye reviled
What have you dream'd of late of this war's purpose?
No other speaker of my living actions,
While other jests are something rank on foot,
Diana, to take heed of the allurement of one Count
The citizens are up, and Tybalt slain.
And by him do my duties to the senate:
What! to you,
Therein false struck, can take no greater wound,
And seek for sorrow with thy spectacles?
To VALERIA
mar.
If thou dost find him tractable to us,
That he is grown so great? Age, thou art shamed!
As maids of thirteen do of puppy-dogs!
For being more stone than it? O royal piece,
And graced thy poor sire with his bridal-day,
Which, out of use and staled by other men,
Or some about him near, have, out of malice
Hang her an epitaph upon her tomb
Their mortal natures, letting go safely by
Mercy itself and frees all faults.
A conqueror that will pray in aid for kindness,
Within a loathsome dungeon, there to pine,
By her I claim the kingdom: she was heir
tricks upon's with savages and men of Ind, ha? I
To soften Angelo: and that's my pith of business
Nay, let it rest where it began at first.
Thou shall be waking well I shed thy blood,
But pardon me. I am too sudden-bold:
Our bloods are now in calm; and, so long, health!
as two and fifty horses: why, nothing comes amiss,
Here comes Bohemia.
ACT V
should be put into the lanthorn. How is it else the
All made of passion and all made of wishes,
Enter the Lord Mayor and CATESBY
Or paddling in your neck with his damn'd fingers,
To do you service.
be not Jack Falstaff, then am I a Jack. There is Percy:
Lost he his other eye?
To be dishonour'd by my sons in Rome!
and a stand: ruminates like an hostess that hath no
To come again to Carthage.
Thou art thy father's daughter; there's enough.
Softly, my masters! if you be gentlemen,
bites his lip with a politic regard, as who should
But who is with him?
Exit Peto
Methinks your looks are sad, your cheer appall'd:
Will you be bound for nothing? be mad, good master:
Yet, I think, we are not brought so low,
constant being won: they are burs, I can tell you;
The crest of youth against your dignity.
WINTER.
Indeed, the French may lay twenty French crowns to
What's the news?
So he does indeed.
At each his needless heavings, such as you
Matching thy inference. 'Tis not to make me jealous
After the shepherd that complain'd of love,
We are like to prove a goodly commodity, being taken
Go back, I warrant thee; but I'll catch thine eyes,
Against the Capitol I met a lion,
I did repel his fetters and denied
More than I know the sound of Marcius' tongue
Attend your office and your quality.
a light burning.
sir John!' quoth I	'what, man! be o' good
And thus he would: Open your city gates;
His forces strong, his soldiers confident.
Virginity being blown down, man will quicklier be
Else your memory is bad, going o'er it erewhile.
Be cross with him; and I'll go fetch thy sons
Allows itself to any thing.
Insulting tyranny begins to jet
Wont, through a secret grate of iron bars
But speedily.
Of dumps so dull and heavy;
Nor none of thee, thou pale and common drudge
Why, yet he doth deny his prisoners,
show you, which shall be yours in private. Your
Is Clarence dead? the order was reversed.
And you the calendars of their nativity,
Be by some certain king purged and deposed.
Your voices: for your voices I have fought;
Than beauty could, display'd. But mark me;
Long time thy shadow hath been thrall to me,
'Tis not the first time you were overshot.
With gentle conference, soft and affable.
My mother told me just how he would woo,
Enter the DUCHESS aloft, HUME following
So from that spring whence comfort seem'd to come
Exit
If in his death the gods have us befriended,
Nor satisfying us.
Bred his hopes out of.
What is the matter here?
That wore the imperial diadem of Rome;
As you would to your friend.
Sir,
Duchess of Norfolk, and Lady Marquess Dorset: will
The bosom of my conscience, enter'd me,
Cap and knee slaves, vapours, and minute-jacks!
For those that were, it is not square to take
When those that gave the thane of Cawdor to me
though I would not have it grow on my chin. Is thy
Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour:
A lie; you are rough and hairy. Let me have no
It is not so with Him that all things knows
you make it speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am
Your Italy contains none so accomplished a courtier
could carry cannon by our sides: I would it might
Myself disposed to sleep.
in some form.
What's here? a cup, closed in my true love's hand?
All that may men approve or men detect!
What I have spoke: but farewell compliment!
ransacked, my reputation gnawn at; and I shall not
My royal lord,
Yet I confess that often ere this day,
I am joyful to hear of their readiness, and am the
What cannot you and I perform upon
Why, how now, lords! your wrathful weapons drawn
and in him that escapes, it were not sin to think
Poor living corse, closed in a dead man's tomb!
If there be ten, shrink not, but down with 'em.
Of your king's sorrow.
To SILVIUS
Worse than the worst, content.
He stuck them up before the fulsome ewes,
SCENE IV. The heath. Before a hovel.
I'ld speak with the Duke of Cornwall and his wife.
Which, being advanced, declines, and then men die.
draw a sword to kill himself; which the ladies
Nor purposed merit in futurity,
Jerusalem, and crown her Queen of England ere the
Whose messengers are here about my side,
alone again, I'll never wrestle for prize more: and
the sea or weather.
Mark Antony's was by Caesar. He chid the sisters
Therein thou wrong'st thy children mightily.
Tell him, I'll knock his leek about his pate
resting here, accuses him of letters he had formerly
I prithee, spare.
Nay, that's certain; they that dally nicely with
she comes weeping for her only mistress' death.
And whet not on these furious peers;
Here, so please you.
The complaints I hear of thee are grievous.
But shall it be that you, that set the crown
Before he should thus stoop to the herd, but that
Within the book and volume of my brain,
she'll none of me: the count himself here hard by woos her.
him.
That sways the earth this climate overlooks,
He will the rather do it when he sees
SCENE II. The palace.
But hast thou yet latch'd the Athenian's eyes
Be't so. Proceed.
But that our soft conditions and our hearts
As black as Vulcan in the smoke of war:
Which bars a thousand harms and lengthens life.
You may, I may not; you are yet unsworn.
the heavens were so pleased that thou wert but my
was skilful enough to have lived still, if knowledge
Resembles that it was. What it should be,
Our duty this way lies; for God's sake come.
Sir, as I have a soul, she is an angel;
Have with thee, my girl.
What's the matter.
By thinking on fantastic summer's heat?
white, and cry 'mum;' she cries 'budget;' and by
wise fellow; thou didst make tolerable vent of thy
All mortal consequences have pronounced me thus:
Sir John stands to his word, the devil shall have
Is smother'd in surmise, and nothing is
What tell'st thou me of robbing? this is Venice;
That what we have we prize not to the worth
For riches strew'd herself even in the streets;
That faultless may condemn a nobleman!
And many unfrequented plots there are
Whom thou, in terms so bloody and so dear,
Is nobler than attending for a cheque,
Mistress Ford. You dissembling knight!
Exeunt
Northumberland, then present, wept to see it.
loving yourself than seeming the lover of any other.
In all which time you and your husband Grey
were one. I would we were all of one mind, and one
Dies
so am I; ha, ha! then there's more sympathy: you
What's Montague? it is nor hand, nor foot,
Ay, Clifford; a bedlam and ambitious humour
Sound drums and trumpets, and the king will fly.
And yours it is against.
That I am forced to lay my reverence by
appeles de fingres; oui, de fingres.
In the cauldron boil and bake;
Thou mightst have sooner got another service:
pays you as surely as your feet hit the ground they
Gentle cousin,
Engaging and redeeming of himself
Since guiltiness I know not; but yet I feel I fear.
That ever Timon was. Shame not these woods,
have her or no.
your master is hard at door; if he bid you set it
What do you mean?
His measure duly.
And tell the pleasant prince this mock of his
Enter a Servant and PANDARUS
Took some displeasure at him; at least he judged so:
As he to me: would he have stolen away
And, Clarence, now then it is more than needful
And cruel death hath catch'd it from my sight!
Well said, brazen-face! hold it out. Come forth, sirrah!
To follow as it draws! I'll to my brother:
Unto this bar and royal interview,
by his oaths, which first possessed them, partly by
sings when he touches it; the basest horn of his
scratched.
You look on me: what wreck discern you in me
Enter a Servant
Both of my life and office, I have labour'd,
But from deceit bred by necessity;
This head of safety; and withal to pry
Your will?
SCENE V. Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace.
And if you love me, as you say you do,
And do not spread the compost on the weeds,
Ascends
to master Jew's?
Good sooth, even thus; therefore ha' done with words:
My boy a bastard! By my soul, I think
The image of it gives me content already; and I
When you cast out, it still came home.
And would not force the letter to my view!
Well, what was yours?
I am to-day i' the vein of chivalry:
SCENE I. The forest.
In awe of such a thing as I myself.
Must not so stale his palm, nobly acquired;
Is he alone?
Hail, gentle sir.
Bid him farewell; commit him to the grave;
Glance at my credit with Hippolyta,
And humbly beg the death upon my knee.
prodigal, who dare scarce show his head on the
Even she; and is she not a heavenly saint?
About our squares of battle, were enow
To ruminate strange plots of dire revenge;
Kind souls, what, weep you when you but behold
Welcome, my good Alexas. Did I, Charmian,
Dighton and Forrest, whom I did suborn
Than pard or cat o' mountain.
The soldier that did company these three
I do confess my fault;
Exeunt
Now, when the bridegroom in the morning comes
Exit
That you might well have signified the same
Per Styga, per manes vehor.
We may, sir, if we will.
Then to Silvia let us sing,
To my house. Fare you well.
Or it hath drawn me rather. But 'tis gone.
Sleep when he wakes and creep into the jaundice
Thy crazed title to my certain right.
A plague upon it, it is in Gloucestershire;
A glorious angel: then, if angels fight,
I wish your ladyship all heart's content.
That ever Brutus will go bound to Rome;
dog's obeyed in office.
He will steal, sir, an egg out of a cloister: for
The shepherd knows not thunder from a tabour
I rather think
Leave procreants alone and shut the door;
That can thy light relume. When I have pluck'd the rose,
believed, so; if not, let them that should reward
In riddles and affairs of death;
Incertain lookers on. What were more holy
let me be boiled to death with melancholy.
If not, why, in a moment look to see
That can do hurt.
Tear him, tear him! Come, brands ho! fire-brands:
I'll fight at sea.
Let this my sword report what speech forbears.
Cannot thy master sleep these tedious nights?
And mine, my lord.
Even on their knees and hands, let him slip down,
Why, what of him?
And with thy blessings steel my lance's point,
The duke and senators of Venice greet you.
I will speak lower.
You would entreat me rather go than stay.
Well, I'll go with thee: provide us all things
Unveiling
Led on by heaven, and crown'd with joy at last:
A man whom both the waters and the wind,
A deed of death done on the innocent
But let it rest. Now, Licio, to you:
God pless it and preserve it, as long as it pleases
I do defy him, and I spit at him;
O, make them joyful, grant their lawful suit!
Welcome, my good friends!
Where with it I may appear a gentleman;
What I believe I'll wail,
But will you, then?
was outrun on Cotsall.
and such-like trifles, nothing comparing to his;
Expedient manage must be made, my liege,
Good, and valiant.
More than it is ere foul sin gathering head
That I cannot look through. Away, I prithee;
But he, I thank him, gnaw'd in two my cords:
Hail, noble prince of France!
O wherefore, Nature, didst thou lions frame?
Sigh no more, ladies, sigh no more,
Not sound, I say.
That Angelo is an adulterous thief,
And then 'twill end.
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH and MARIA
I do not without danger walk these streets:
I would say the truth; but to accuse him so,
But first I'll turn yon fellow in his grave;
He cried to me; I saw him prisoner;
Call you this chiding?
Enter LORENZO, JESSICA, and SALERIO, a Messenger from Venice
With the same 'havior that your passion bears
Since I may say 'Now lie I like a king.'
The royal fool thou copest with,--
so much as this fact comes to?
I can say little more than I have studied, and that
I must go in. Ay me, how weak a thing
The king doth wake to-night and takes his rouse,
Who makes the fairest show means most deceit.
No, like a bank for love to lie and play on;
And let us presently go sit in council,
Think on thy sins.
Come, let them be opinioned.
Lady, amen.
A dance
Where is he living, clipp'd in with the sea
What stir is this? what tumult's in the heavens?
Hark ye; Master Slender would speak a word with you.
As friendly as you were.
Ay, good my lord, and leave us to our fortune.
Or from the all that are took something good,
goats, Audrey. And how, Audrey? am I the man yet?
Make choice of which your highness will see first.
Me seemeth then it is no policy,
to have had so much blood in him.
Exeunt DESDEMONA and EMILIA
SCENE II. A forest near Rome. Horns and cry of hounds heard.
Or say 'tis not your seal, nor your invention:
away the performance: therefore, much drink
Lords, to the field; Saint George and victory!
'To the celestial and my soul's idol, the most
thee, I have been blown out of your gates with
Exeunt FALSTAFF and ROBIN
Would I not undergo for one calm look!
Witness my tears, I cannot stay to speak.
Well, I must leave her company.
Whether for east or west: the dearth is great;
That peaceful truce shall be proclaim'd in France,
Crack nature's moulds, an germens spill at once,
The rough and woeful music that we have,
But think her bond of chastity quite crack'd,
ACT II
[Reads]  'For Jaquenetta,--so is the weaker vessel
Exit
The lineal state and glory of the land!
She was false as water.
Madam!
I came with Hermia hither: our intent
What hast thou done? thou hast mistaken quite
And made no deeper wounds? O flattering glass,
And yielding to him humours well his frenzy.
The more it grows and fawneth on her still.
Is't possible, friend Licio, that Mistress Bianca
Thou hast as chiding a nativity
Are they not but in Britain? I' the world's volume
Upon that poor and broken bankrupt there?'
O, for the love of laughter, let him fetch his drum;
Where there's another man: the vows of women
boys behind 'em, loose shot, delivered such a shower
Mark Antony,--
It is a life that I have desired: I will thrive.
I warrant you.
Send to me in the morning and I'll send it:
Aside to MISTRESS FORD
I am always bound to you.
Give us the place alone: we will hear this divinity.
Now shall he try his friends that flatter'd him.
Caesar, all hail! good morrow, worthy Caesar:
I speak not 'be thou true,' as fearing thee,
Sir Toby would leave drinking, thou wert as witty a
Of place, time, fortune, do cohere and jump
That all my bowels crumble up to dust:
And top of sovereignty?
My Lord of Gloucester, in those busy days
Is there no manners left among maids? will they
Did you by indirect and forced courses
To their approvers they are people such
By diligent discovery; but your haste
Youth, you have done me much ungentleness,
Of breaches, ambuscadoes, Spanish blades,
Is but a preface of her worthy praise;
You shall be mistress, and command him wholly.
As yours was put into you, ever casts
and leave us.
There shall no figure at such rate be set
had some reason for't; for if a king bid a man be a
thing, Nerissa, ere I'll be married to a sponge.
with no more advantage than the opportunity of a
This challenge that the gallant Hector sends,
Unless you were of gentler, milder mould.
You will not, then?
And would not be awaked.
And ere thou bid good night, to quit their griefs,
As to be cast forth in the common air,
What says my brother?
of love. Leander, he would have lived many a fair
I'll bring the body presently.
And maidens bleach their summer smocks
SCENE I. A hall In ANGELO's house.
Be of good cheer, youth: you a man! you lack a
Sweet Nell, ill can thy noble mind abrook
Exit
A fox to be the shepherd of thy lambs.
us our sins!--Gentlemen, let's look to our business.
Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE, DUKE OF YORK,  NORTHUMBERLAND, LORD ROSS, HENRY PERCY, LORD WILLOUGHBY, with BUSHY and GREEN, prisoners
Thou speak'st with all thy wit: and yet, i' faith,
should he not be publicly shamed.
Our services awhile; but my full heart
Enter PISANIO
I told you. Lord Angelo, belike thinking me remiss
with a warrener.
And had no welcomes home: but he returns,
Philip, my liege, so is my name begun,
Enough to fetch him in. See it done:
I am their fathers mother; I will see them.
To fly the favours of so good a king;
how say you?
Bring me a father that so loved his child,
Ride on the pants triumphing!
trumpet: he is bold in his defence.'
Done many things, some less, some more your voices:
Peradventure this is not Fortune's work neither, but
To rid her from this second marriage,
To myself nothing. Speak the truth, Seleucus.
Of the self-same metal that my sister is,
The ruddiness upon her lip is wet;
To him that victory commands? or do you purpose
How camest thou in this pickle?
made me mad. I say, we will have no more marriages:
Phebe did write it.
But what from Rome?
You may so in the end.
to be fat be to be hated, then Pharaoh's lean kine
The folded meaning of your words' deceit.
Stabs himself
My sweet Patroclus, I am thwarted quite
Go hence a little and I shall conduct you,
What from your grace I shall deliver to him.
Let pity not be believed!' There she shook
Envy and base opinion set against 'em,
Inherit at my house; hear all, all see,
That stops my way in Padua. Grumio,
'Tis not the balm, the sceptre and the ball,
So do I too, if it be not too much: brings a'
I cry you mercy: I mean the lord protector.
Think that the clearest gods, who make them honours
And smooth the frowns of war with peaceful looks.
Enter ADRIANA, LUCIANA, the Courtezan, and PINCH
[Aside]  How well this honest mirth becomes their labour!
Re-enter the first Servingman
I shower a welcome on ye; welcome all.
Until your lordship came to see his death;
'Tis heavy with him: and am I then revenged,
[Aside]  The Lord increase this business!
Nor I, my lord, in faith.
getting wenches with child, wronging the ancientry,
Trace the conjunction!
now I let go your hand, I am barren.
Clerk, draw a deed of gift.
Fled from her wish and yet said 'Now I may,'
Shall be a fume, and the receipt of reason
My acts, decrees, and statutes I deny:
repent out the remainder of nature: let me live,
So may the outward shows be least themselves:
Stanley, he is your wife's son well, look to it.
Abetting him to thwart me in my mood!
I said the deer was not a haud credo; twas a pricket.
And therefore think him as a serpent's egg
It is his hand, my lord; but I hope his heart is
Hast thou forgot thyself? is it so long?
One of the three to share it?
Is he not here?
With humble suit: no, rather let my head
SCENE I. London. A gallery in the palace.
less than truth, they are villains and the sons of darkness.
and fathers declining, the father should be as
Parcel the sum of my disgraces by
But she loves you?
at the court are as ridiculous in the country as the
Which here we came to spout against your town,
ARIEL sings
Peace! who comes here?
Aside
Join'd with an enemy proclaim'd and from his coffers
Well, call forth, call forth.
Do not swear at all;
I have a pain upon my forehead here.
Marry, sir, besides myself, I am due to a woman; one
That never aim'd so high to love your daughter,
them down again, for the man must not be hanged till
At length the sun, gazing upon the earth,
humbly give you leave to depart; and if a merry
But the safer when 'tis back'd with France.
I will stand to and feed,
That dies in tempest of thy angry frown.
Ay; or else 'twere hard luck, being in so
Heigh, heigh! the devil rides upon a fiddlestick:
Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
This deed of thine is no more worthy heaven
The king is present: if it be known to him
Well, sir, learn to jest in good time: there's a
Come hither: pray you,
And thou shalt find a king that will revenge
The flower that's like thy face, pale primrose, nor
laughing, as, ah, ha, he!
And, where I thought the remnant of mine age
sweet Bianca, if I can by any means light on a fit
That bastes his arrogance with his own seam
Lie there what hidden woman's fear there will--
her own nest.
I answer you! what should I answer you?
They have tied me to a stake; I cannot fly,
Or thou shouldst find thou hast dishonour'd me.
Pray you, stand further from me.
Who, with a charm join'd to their suffer'd labour,
Of Charles the duke of Lorraine, sole heir male
worthy of by your attempt.
You do their work, and they shall have good luck:
And when he was a babe, a child, a shrimp,
and no more ado. Remember 'stoned,' and 'flayed alive.'
'Twill be two days ere I shall see you, so
how the knave jowls it to the ground, as if it were
aqua-vitae bottle, or a thief to walk my ambling
hundred bastards, he would have paid for the nursing
Ceres' blessing so is on you.
Your crown and kingdom, indirectly held
Tell him Revenge is come to join with him,
Your tributary drops belong to woe,
The shrine of Venus, or straight-pight Minerva.
Believe't, that we'll do any thing for gold.
Malice ne'er meant: our breach of duty this way
The common people swarm like summer flies;
According to my bond; nor more nor less.
Did murder her; as that name's cursed hand
My lord, the enemy is past the marsh
Where they did spend a sad and bloody hour,
hate the Moor: my cause is hearted; thine hath no
Five have I slain to-day instead of him.
In my penurious band: I have heard, and grieved,
As much as he deserves! Pause there, Morocco,
Or heard him say,--as knaves be such abroad,
What's this, Comelius?
Widow, go you along. Lords, use her honourably.
Exit
I were your son, so you would love me, Hubert.
Sent from our uncle Duke of Burgundy.
[Reads]
And never to let Beatrice know of it.
shaven Hercules in the smirched worm-eaten tapestry,
I bear unto the banish'd Valentine,
Reads
Nay, faith, let me not play a woman; I have a beard coming.
Lies foul with chew'd grass, still and motionless;
Aside to SEBASTIAN and ANTONIO
The very instant that I saw you, did
'Tis more than you deserve;
That both mine eyes were rainy like to his :
You sleep in peace, the tyrant being slain;
Mean time let this defend my loyalty,
That either makes me or fordoes me quite.
SCENE III. Another room In the castle.
At mine unworthiness that dare not offer
The Volsces have much corn; take these rats thither
At all acknowledge. For Polixenes,
Hubert shall be your man, attend on you
And I am your Rosalind.
ANTIPHOLUS
Round about the cauldron go;
What please yourself, sir: I have made it for you.
The tyrant's people on both sides do fight;
There was a lady once, 'tis an old story,
We bodged again; as I have seen a swan
Why, very well; I telling you then, if you be
And our twelve thousand horse. We'll to our ship:
Margaret my name, and daughter to a king,
This was my dream: what it doth bode, God knows.
So stood the state when Henry the Sixth
Doctor Caius,--
Then were they chosen: in a better hour,
Thou art like the harpy,
For his death we do perceive his guilt:
My liege, and madam, to expostulate
Sir, it is a mystery.
Let them be in the hands--
What, I pray you?
For me, the ransom of my bold attempt
No such matter: I will not sort you with the rest
Their dearest action in the tented field,
O, get thee from my sight;
The deadly-handed Clifford slew my steed,
Enter OLIVIA and MARIA
cuckold's horns. Master Brook, thou shalt know I
My suit, as I do understand, you know,
your grace, that he keep his vow and his oath: if
Give me your favour: my dull brain was wrought
Who can control his fate? 'tis not so now.
Heavens make our presence and our practises
I have been to you a true and humble wife,
To purge herself with words: dispatch.
length again, tarry: but away! go to; have you
Sleep sound:
That erst did follow thy proud chariot-wheels
Had I but seen thy picture in this plight,
Fierce fiery warriors fought upon the clouds,
Shall marry her at Pentapolis. And now,
Away,
And whisper one another in the ear;
The next is, that Sir Thomas More is chosen
estimation of them; 'tis a condition they account
Goes into the trunk. The scene closes
husband, if thou be so shrewd of thy tongue.
a leg, put off's cap, kiss his hand and say nothing,
honourable friend, Agrippa!
If all else fail, myself have power to die.
Which darest not, no, nor canst not rule a traitor.
Why, what wouldst thou do there before I go?
As to be hush'd and nought at all to say:
That I do brag thus! This your air of France
The meaning, pretty ingenious?
which is much in a bare Christian.
Allons! allons! Sow'd cockle reap'd no corn;
They have not been commanded, mighty sovereign:
Draw near,
Unstate his happiness, and be staged to the show,
A sin-absolver, and my friend profess'd,
It must be shortly known to him from England
Eros!--I come, my queen:--Eros!--Stay for me:
Enter ORLANDO and ADAM
At fortune's alms. You have obedience scanted,
That makes the wappen'd widow wed again;
How many sons of mine hast thou in store,
Now, pretty one, how long have you been at this trade?
Now, master Brook, you come to know what hath passed
He scatter'd not in ears, but grafted them,
Boy!
I think she doth; and that's her cause of sorrow.
A man that more detests, more stirs against,
discretion but to hang us: but I will aggravate my
To be entangled with those mouth-made vows,
As if those organs had deceptious functions,
We wish your peace.
That weaken motion: I'll have't disputed on;
Of Caesar's death.
Upon the caves of Nile.
work? There; give it your hobby-horse: wheresoever
fall in love with my anger. If it be so, as fast as
Enter CYMBELINE, Lords, PISANIO, and Attendants
So.
Ay, with a heart as willing
To make this shameless callet know herself.
This will I tell my lady straight: I would not be
Ta'en of your many virtues, the king's majesty
answer every man directly and briefly, wisely and
Now the red pestilence strike all trades in Rome,
For my peculiar care. This one thing only
Thou pitied'st Rutland; I will pity thee.
Is he at home?
Exeunt
progression, hath miscarried. Trip and go, my
And flesh his spirit in a warlike soil,
not such grinning honour as Sir Walter hath: give me
If he were living, I would try him yet.
Speak not, reply not, do not answer me;
Thrice-worthy gentleman!
Take time to pause; and, by the nest new moon--
whereof being by circumstances partly laid open,
his happier affairs may be, are to me unknown: but I
Exit MAMILLIUS
Here I am, thou particular fellow.
Come, my lord, I'll lead you to your tent.
To be his purveyor: but he rides well;
But is he often thus?
Valiantly vanquish'd. Now my spirit is going;
So infinitely endear'd--
than the stripes I have received, which are mighty
Have left me issueless; and your father's blest,
I do extend him, sir, within himself,
honourable without marriage? I think you would have
Great and increasing: but by sea
ANTIPHOLUS
Will not be rubb'd nor stopp'd: I'll entreat for thee.
And then grace us in the disgrace of death;
And to the latest gasp cried out for Warwick,
Exeunt
If that she learn not of her eye to look:
And was he not in England prisoner?
If the scarce-bearded Caesar have not sent
He shall see none to fear.
To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
So you, to study now it is too late,
Once every hour.
I think 'tis no unwelcome news to you.
None should come at him.
Of the great count himself, she is too mean
Above a better gone, so must thy grave
of mine; and writ to me this other day to turn him
I do to spite the world.
She has robb'd me of my sword.
Good Margaret, run thee to the parlor;
To LUCIUS
Saw'st thou the melancholy Lord Northumberland?
Cardinal, I'll be no breaker of the law:
Enter PROTEUS
auricular assurance have your satisfaction; and
Marry that will, I live and die a maid:
Scholars allow'd freely to argue for her.
Hath not yet dived into the world's deceit
In that's no changeling; and I must excuse
If she should break it now!
Even to the utmost grain: that you shall read
In thirteen battles Salisbury o'ercame;
'Tis said, my liege, in Yorkshire are in arms.
As 'twere retail'd to all posterity,
Why, do not your courtier's hands sweat? and is not
Nor I.
have fought with the men, I will be cruel with the
Shall draw this brief into as huge a volume.
I am as able and as fit as thou
I deem you an ill husband, and am glad
Without control, listed to make his prey.
I would the state of time had first been whole
Hast made thine enemies?
and moves with its own organs: it lives by that
This female bastard hence and that thou bear it
Well, seeing gentle words will not prevail,
Sure, there's some wonder in this handkerchief:
That give accosting welcome ere it comes,
To be so moral when he shall endure
go near to make a man look sad.
Weep, wretched man, I'll aid thee tear for tear;
Art thou thus bolden'd, man, by thy distress,
Now the good gods forbid
Stuck with cloves.
Most grossly, by his own!
Something--I know not what: I'll love thee much,
Didst thou not lead him through the glimmering night
Tread on the sand; why, there you quickly sink:
more; and, sweet my child, let them be men of good
What's the matter? Have we devils here? Do you put
What you have nobly done.
Who died the minute I was born,
She is my goods, my chattels; she is my house,
what news?
It should none spare that come within his power.
As I saw it inclined: when was the hour
Shallow, esquire, saith, he is wronged.
I put it to your care.
Say that King Edward take thee for his queen?
your straight strossers.
for such store,
A linguist and a man of such perfection
Sir, what are you that offer to beat my servant?
You'll leave his lecture when I am in tune?
Exeunt LEONATO and Messenger
In thy despite shall 'scape mortality.
And whet on Warwick to this enterprise.
And the demesnes that there adjacent lie,
imposed upon his father that sent him: or if a
So.
To watch the night in storms, the day in cold,
What! we have many goodly days to see:
Hearts of most hard temper
She strike upon the bell. Get thee to bed.
thought on,
To yield thee so much profit. Let not conscience,
pipe; no, the bagpipe could not move you: he sings
In thy eye that shall appear
Say what I think of it, since I have found
Trumpet sounds
confess it brokenly with your English tongue. Do
But if thy arms be to no other end,
Of forfeiture, of justice and his bond.
Knows not that ever he knew me.
I have not sounded him, nor he deliver'd
By friendship nor by speaking.'
Your highness knows. Their nurse, Euriphile,
To incur a private cheque. When shall he come?
Exit
To choose for wealth and not for perfect love.
And I for sorrow sung,
The precious treasure of his eyesight lost:
Not yet old enough for a man, nor young enough for
And triumphs over chance in honour's bed.
Is mortals' chiefest enemy.
I am Saint Jaques' pilgrim, thither gone:
Prize you yourselves: what buys your company?
Make up my sum. What wilt thou do for her?
I'll tell thee, ere thou ask it me again.
French upbraided or abused in disdainful language;
Enter EGEUS, HERMIA, LYSANDER, and DEMETRIUS
Sleep again, Lucius. Sirrah Claudius!
Therefore thou must be hang'd at the state's charge.
As yonder Venus in her glimmering sphere.
Ay, sir; but she will none, she gives you thanks.
Hover about her; say, that right for right
Holding Corioli in the name of Rome,
And set thee by Jove's side. Yet come a little,--
All ports I'll bar; the villain shall not 'scape;
Re-enter CATESBY
That shall attend his love.
which laid their guilt upon my guiltless shoulders.
And not the punishment. Therefore indeed, my father,
In your fair minds let this acceptance take.
All plumed like estridges that with the wind
O, send some succor to the distress'd lord!
My villain!
Was it not she and that good man of worship,
The letter is too long by half a mile.
Low alarums
Sometime the flood prevails, and then the wind;
Upbraid my falsehood! when they've said 'as false
That hearing how our plaints and prayers do pierce,
'Tis proper I obey him, but not now.
The handmaids of all women, or, more truly,
What woman's man? and how besides thyself? besides thyself?
In this distracted globe. Remember thee!
For every honour sitting on his helm,
If e'er I loved her, all that love is gone.
And in the wood, a league without the town,
Or, if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love,
tender air; and when from a stately cedar shall be
Stay there, sir,
A piece of ordnance 'gainst it I have placed;
the middle and but one half of what he was
The senators of Athens greet thee, Timon.
Enter SEMPRONIUS, and a Servant of TIMON's
Ere I ope his letter,
O, by this count I shall be much in years
As very infants prattle of thy pride.
That things ill-got had ever bad success?
'Tis poor mad Tom.
Our windows are broke down in every street
For 'twas your heaven she should be advanced:
By your leave; I cry you mercy: give your worship
I hold it not honesty to have it thus set down, for
And yet wouldst wrongly win: thou'ldst have, great Glamis,
By fair or foul means we must enter in,
Do it with gentle means and easy tasks:
That Lepidus of the triumvirate
but as thou art prince, I fear thee as I fear the
But in the presence of the prioress:
In a neat's tongue dried and a maid not vendible.
Afore me! it is so very very late,
the meeting of the two kings?
You shall not choose but drink before you go:
I think she stirs again:--no. What's best to do?
He is, my lord, and safe in Leicester town;
I take this offer, then; pay the bond thrice
Harp on that still--but by our putting on;
But, whatsoe'er thou takest me for, I'm sure
therein the heaping friendships. Of that fatal
heating of the oven and the baking; nay, you must
For blood of ours, shed blood of Montague.
Spirit,
take Antenor! the young prince will go mad: a
though I say it, is an honest exceeding poor man
To seek her as a bed-fellow,
cousin will say so.
That sings with piercing; do not touch my lord.
Betwixt a father by thy step-dame govern'd,
you; for I think I have taken my last draught in
Though Argus were her eunuch and her guard:
wherewith,--
Caesar? Why, he's the Jupiter of men.
Now in the rearward comes the duke and his:
You praise yourself
Esteem none friends but such as are his friends,
beef-witted lord!
Away with the joint-stools, remove the
Feast-won, fast-lost; one cloud of winter showers,
And here am I, and wode within this wood,
I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
Wailing our losses, whiles the foe doth rage;
You have stood your limitation; and the tribunes
with thee.
Should not produce fair issue.
Of your profession? Speak, what trade art thou?
year, in the afternoon.
Re-enter POLIXENES
manhood is melted into courtesies, valour into
For certain sums of gold, which you denied me:
So play the foolish throngs with one that swoons;
I must unto the road, to disembark
If to either, thou dost ill.
Who's here? speak, ho! No answer! What is this?
Not to eat honey like a drone
Come on; thou art granted space.
presence still smile, dear my sweet, I prithee.'
glory is to subdue men. Adieu, valour! rust rapier!
any.
My Alcibiades. With me? what is your will?
Did they not sometime cry, 'all hail!' to me?
But poverty could never draw 'em from me;
And she again wants nothing, to name want,
The emperor and the Earl of Armagnac?
Had you not lately an intent,--speak truly,--
Tarry, Jew:
I say, the proclamation!
His noble cousin is right welcome hither;
The goodness of your intercepted packets
a whole bookful of these quondam carpet-mangers,
Who have we here? Rome's royal empress,
Sirs, drag them from the pit unto the prison:
bound for England; if your name be Horatio, as I am
Re-enter KING RICHARD, RATCLIFF, Attendants and Forces
You have heard much.
Is't possible?
Jaques of Chatillon, admiral of France;
Nothing of him that doth fade
As thy auspicious mistress!
A right description of our sport, my lord.
Which, like unruly children, make their sire
Upon a courser, whose delightful steps
I pray you, sir, take patience: I have hope.
For shame, my liege, make them your precedent!
Do call it valiant fury: but, for certain,
serviteur; excusez-moi, je vous supplie, mon
gift is good in those in whom it is acute, and I am
Enter HORNER, the Armourer, and his man PETER, guarded
How got they in, and be hang'd?
Deposed he shall be, in despite of all.
And with an unthrift love did run from Venice
Nips youth i' the head and follies doth emmew
You that durst swear at your mistress Bianca
come I to my sister; mark the moan she makes. Now
And that hereafter ages may behold
Exit MARCIUS
taking a beggar without less quality. But how comes
'Tear him to pieces.' 'Do it presently.' 'He kill'd
He, when he hears of her, cannot refrain
To reconcile you all unto the king.
And show no sign of fear.
Cut off the proud'st conspirator that lives.
I pray you do.
been executed; I have stood on the pillory for geese
Will it be ever thus? Ungracious wretch,
Then, farewell, heat, and welcome, frost!
But once a-day, it would unclog my heart
you shall find the ceremonies of the wars, and the
Let us have knowledge at the court of guard.
But our great Ajax bravely beat down him.'
His promises were, as he then was, mighty;
When rich ones scarce tell true. To lapse in fulness
I am as peremptory as she proud-minded;
See for the news.
For in this rapture I shall surely speak
be what they are, there were no fear in marriage;
The deep damnation of his taking-off;
And to bestow your pity on me: for
Upon what ground?
My hand to thee; mine honour on my promise.
Exit
But let me see: is this our foeman's face?
morning you could not see to wipe my shoes.
Chain mine arm'd neck; leap thou, attire and all,
See what I do deliver out to each,
This warlike volley.
With the consent of supreme Jove, inform
Ay, let the county take you in your bed;
To wait, said I? to wanton with this queen,
You bless me, gods!
A most unspotted lily shall she pass
I fear me, it will make me scandalized.
Enter CALIBAN
Religion groans at it.
So I, to find a mother and a brother,
SCENE III. The same. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's house.
Unbuckle, unbuckle.
I am sorry, Cymbeline,
pate of father Time himself.
Lord, Lord! methought, what pain it was to drown!
Not unaccompanied invest him only,
He gives his hand to WARWICK
Disfigure not his slop.
Blood hath been shed ere now, i' the olden time,
Enter SHALLOW, SLENDER, and SIR HUGH EVANS
Do, and be witness to 't.
Now must your conscience my acquaintance seal,
Against our nuptial and confer with you
Shall nothing wrong him. Thus it is, general.
yourselves, no matter; for we must not seem to
A Turkish fleet, and bearing up to Cyprus.
good armour; and now will he lie ten nights awake,
As she is mine, I may dispose of her:
I wait the sharpest blow, Antiochus.
The sailors sought for safety by our boat,
With pity, that doth make me sick. A lady
Whither will you have me? Why do you weep?
Thyself thyself misusest.
I cannot read them now.
Have made themselves so strong:--for with her death
Your answer, sir.
Paris, you speak
That could stand up his parallel;
Presents a letter
Who, he? I think the sun where he was born
Your brother and his lover have embraced:
I do not like the Tower, of any place.
Let shame come when it will, I do not call it:
you must learn to know such slanders of the age, or
Alas, good lady!
Re-enter Provost
Induce you to the question on't? or ever
[Reads]  'Item, That no woman shall come within a
For thy three thousand ducats here is six.
To sit here at this present, and behold
I know your virtue hath a licence in't,
Flower of warriors,
Effects of courtesy, dues of gratitude;
are welcome to the house; if not, an it would please
Against a change; woe is forerun with woe.
Ballad us out o' tune: the quick comedians
And then the end is known. Come, ho! away!
Exeunt
Nay, rather let me have it, as you are a false thief.
[Advancing]     What is he whose grief
That they'll take no offence at our abuse.
Warwick, my son, the comfort of my age,
Exit BUCKINGHAM with the Citizens
Betwixt the wind and his nobility.
O, what more favour can I do to thee,
Candied with ice, caudle thy morning taste,
But like a common and an outward man,
And he hath sent for thee: for the queen,
Not in my husband's nose.
That hath a stomach; and such a one that dare
about him, to signify wall; and let him hold his
And there they hull, expecting but the aid
There is some space.
For I have heard him say a thousand times
Rush on his host, as doth the melted snow
We do believe thee: and beshrew my soul
Are singled forth to try experiments:
Boundless intemperance
When comes Troilus? I'll show you Troilus anon: if
But, in defence, by mercy, 'tis most just.
Enter GLOUCESTER, and EDGAR dressed like a peasant
Where is my other life? mine own is gone;
All my abilities in thy behalf.
I'll undertake may see away their shilling
That e'er did lift up eye.
And where thou now exact'st the penalty,
To meet all perils very constantly.
With full bags of spices! A passport too!
When you depart from him, but, soft and low,
Yes;
Why, I tell thee, I care not though he burn himself
We give thee for reward a thousand marks,
Every way makes my gain: live Roderigo,
company light upon thee! I will fear to catch it
The strawberry grows underneath the nettle
I can add colours to the chameleon,
Scrambling, out-facing, fashion-monging boys,
Saint George and victory! fight, soldiers, fight.
That while Verona by that name is known,
May be beholding to a subject, I
A god on earth thou art.
I will in Cassio's lodging lose this napkin,
a sovereign's sovereign to ride on; and for the
Where hadst thou it?
To bandy hasty words, to scant my sizes,
Even so it was with me when I was young:
Fillip the stars; then let the mutinous winds
Please but your honour hear me.
To her acceptance; you have let him go
went to sea with the Ten Commandments, but scraped
Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse:
Tell me, sweet uncle, what's the matter?
These tidings would call forth their flowing tides.
Madest quick conveyance with her good aunt Anne.
Broach'd with the steely point of Clifford's lance;
Where is the county's page, that raised the watch?
More valour in me than my habits show.
You are too young, too happy, and too good,
To quit the penalty and to ransom him.
Ay, there's the point: as--to be bold with you--
With purpose presently to leave this war.
Hail to your lordship!
The best actors in the world, either for tragedy,
tend on no man's business, laugh when I am merry and
Sings
Ah, cousin York! would thy best friends did know
Though little fire grows great with little wind,
Enter KING HENRY and EXETER
What news more?
But sound the trumpets, and about our task.
My wasting lamps some fading glimmer left,
If you will jest with me, know my aspect,
That you are worthless.
Commune with you of this, but rather follow
Let us confess and turn it to a jest.
O, tell, tell.
And to make whores, a bawd. Hold up, you sluts,
To show his grief: let her be round with him;
To villany and vengeance consecrate,
If the duke be guiltless,
Yet, by reputing of his high descent,
Of your own state take care: this dream of mine,--
And his succession granted Rome a tribute,
'Tis well I am found by you.
To banish him that struck more blows for Rome
Till Angiers and the right thou hast in France,
Good morrow, Ajax.
That are within the note of expectation
Even so by love the young and tender wit
Alack, no remedy!--to the greedy touch
When miracles have by the greatest been denied.
Had answer'd him.
You know your mother means to feast with me,
What means your lordship?
Exeunt
Exeunt
whipped three market-days together.
DON
That I may call thee something more than man
I shall report it so.
thy life: all thy safety were remotion and thy
And even since then hath Richard been obscured,
turned heathen, a very renegado; for there is no
Peep'd harms that menaced him: he privily
It is here, Hamlet: Hamlet, thou art slain;
From men of royal siege, and my demerits
When thou mayst tell thy tale a nearer way?
Have I sought every country far and near,
you. I told him you were sick; he takes on him to
infidel! Ha! you shall see now in very sincerity
--thou must think there's a necessity in't,--and
She that's a maid now, and laughs at my departure,
Come in, and let us banquet royally,
I would have peace and quietness, but the fool will
We stand much hazard, if they bring not Timon.
May read strange matters. To beguile the time,
Ay, surely, mere the truth: I know his lady.
divers persons. I'll tell you who Time ambles
Enter KING JOHN, QUEEN ELINOR, BLANCH, the BASTARD, Lords, and forces
Exit
No, sir: yet oft,
O, my good lord, yonder's foul murders done!
And duty in his service perishing.
To whom?
It grieves many:
Take thy correction mildly, kiss the rod,
him; and on that vice in him will my revenge find
That I, one Snout by name, present a wall;
And chastisement doth therefore hide his head.
We go wrong, we go wrong.
And chides the sea that sunders him from thence,
With meekness and humility; but your heart
And though it was mine own, part of my heritage,
As full as thy report?
And suddenly; where injury of chance
Thou art not for the fashion of these times,
Never, O never shall I see more joy!
From this unhallowed and blood-stained hole?
Yet what can it when one can not repent?
You will, chops?
The names of those their nobles that lie dead:
displeasure, neither to speak of him, entreat for
How like a younker or a prodigal
Men so disorder'd, so debosh'd and bold,
Come, I must bring you to our captain's cave:
Bid me do any thing but that, sweet Greek.
Edward the Duke of York, the Earl of Suffolk,
What says our general?
Are then in council; and the state of man,
Less appear so in comforting your evils,
spirit. Put your bonnet to his right use; 'tis for the head.
To the Fool
Thou wert better gall the devil, Salisbury:
We know his handiwork: therefore, good mother,
My riches are these poor habiliments,
By treason's tooth bare-gnawn and canker-bit:
I'll keep them all;
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
Exeunt TROILUS, CRESSIDA, and DIOMEDES
That all men follow.
Brought hither Henry Hereford thy bold son,
tanner of Wingham,--
And so most joyfully we take our leave.
So Tamora:
Because that she as her attendant hath
In mine own person; holp to reap the fame
You must no more.
but the composition that your valour and fear makes
Into my grave.
Whose weakness, married to thy stronger state,
moves like an engine, and the ground shrinks before
Why, what have you to do whither they bear it? You
How now, fellow! would'st anything with me?
Hath had no power yet upon thy beauty:
Upon the place beneath: it is twice blest;
I may entitle thee my loving father:
Go, call the people:
Partake to every one. I, an old turtle,
Doublets, I think,--flew up; and had their faces
And come yourselves, and bring Messala with you
To have what we would have, we speak not what we mean:
No deeper wrinkles yet? hath sorrow struck
Is it therefore
We are for you: sit i' the middle.
distant time stood, as it were, in a fruit-dish, a
So I might live one hour in your sweet bosom.
To lie that way thou go'st, not whence thou comest:
Let dying Mortimer here rest himself.
Than lying, vainness, babbling, drunkenness,
Or if you will, to speak more properly,
enemies; and what's his reason? I am a Jew. Hath
Have misbecomed our oaths and gravities,
Thou liest, abhorred tyrant; with my sword
Or more than any living man could bear.
And what he will, I humbly yield unto.
If you require a little space for prayer,
Enter three or four Lords
I cannot speak enough of this content;
O, no, no.
Nor cutpurses come not to throngs;
How fares your grace?
For being now a favourer to the Briton,
Some say, that though she appear honest to me, yet in
Write sorrow on the bosom of the earth,
As thou didst leave it.
Hath lost me in your liking.
To note the chamber: I will write all down:
Is he here, say you? 'tis more than I know, I'll
Come, blade, my breast imbrue:
Will we acquaint with all that we intend;
Yet now they fright me. There is one within,
Attending nature's law:
Set on towards London, cousin, is it so?
Which for things true weeps things imaginary.
Exeunt
now than an eight-year-old horse. The tartness
The Lady Beatrice hath a quarrel to you: the
I'll begin it,--Ding, dong, bell.
shepherd; from whose simplicity I think it not
and fight for bitten apples; that no audience, but
I will, my lord.
And I.
Mistress Anne Page. I pray you, be gone: I will
forward already? What a pagan rascal is this! an
To taint his nobler heart and brain
When Goths were Goths and Tamora was queen--
neither here nor there.
Now I perceive the devil understands Welsh;
This enemy town. I'll enter: if he slay me,
Exit
So bear I thee upon my manly shoulders;
Our daughters' several dowers, that future strife
No, indeed, are they not.
Appear and aid me in this enterprise.
The rest--hark in thine ear--as black as incest:
You are one of those
thieves of the day's beauty: let us be Diana's
Aside
Above a twelvemonth. I have within my mind
I did not send you: if you find him sad,
Let not sloth dim your horrors new-begot:
and the king shall live without an heir, if that
By the Athenian garment be had on?
I think would better please 'em: by my life,
The business we have talk'd of.
Were I but now the lord of such hot youth
Who, if he live, will scarce be gentlemen,
The three-fold world divided, he should stand
He may a little grieve at.
By my troth, I take my young lord to be a very
And humbly now upon my bended knee,
This fool-begg'd patience in thee will be left.
What talk you of debating? in few words,
As hateful as Cocytus' misty mouth.
It beckons you to go away with it,
Exit EDGAR
God's patience and the king's English.
His faults in him seem as the spots of heaven,
[Reads]  'Thy mistress, Pisanio, hath played the
I, measuring his affections by my own,
Made it for me, sir! I bespoke it not.
Enter PETRUCHIO and GRUMIO
Certain, men should be what they seem.
Ay, better than him I am before knows me. I know
The street should see as she walk'd overhead.
Two such opposed kings encamp them still
Which I so often owe: but your ring first;
What talkest thou to me of the hangman? if I hang,
All the particulars of vice so grafted
Now, what my love is, proof hath made you know;
Ay, but the doors be lock'd and keys kept safe,
Here is a gentleman whom by chance I met,
Amen to that, sweet powers!
And therefore am I bold and resolute.
Upon her patient breast, making their way
And how do yours?
'Faith, the cry goes that you shall marry her.
Meanwhile I am possess'd of that is mine.
And fell so roundly to a large confession,
a boy; as a squash is before 'tis a peascod, or a
Be friends awhile and both conjointly bend
policy; I will kill thee a hundred and fifty ways:
Spied a blossom passing fair
Hath he never heretofore sounded you in this business?
But is a-weary of thy common sight,
Come, sit thou here, most learned justicer;
Men should be what they seem;
O Cassio, whence came this?
Upon his body that slaughter'd him!
And hold thee to my heart.
Come hither, boy; come, come, and learn of us
wonderful! and yet again wonderful, and after that,
not very well?
matter: I'll ne'er be drunk whilst I live again,
Doth grace for grace and love for love allow;
Dost thou not laugh?
Nobly he yokes
Unto our gentle senses.
And I will make thee think thy swan a crow.
[Aside]  And yet you will; and yet another 'yet.'
Monsieur Parolles, you were born under a charitable star.
As ever hit my nostril. So, up with it.
Make it no wonder; if you knew my business,
Not in my house, Lucentio; for, you know,
Catesby, o'erlook the walls.
To cureless ruin. I stand here for law.
as far from jealousy as I am from giving him cause;
So full of dismal terror was the time!
To the yet unbegotten sin of times;
Thy humble servant vows obedience
Pray, walk softly, do not heat your blood:
Virgins and boys, mid-age and wrinkled eld,
Which he, sir?
O brother Montague, give me thy hand:
Whose dust is both alike. I am very sick.
A blasting and a scandalous breath to fall
My absolute power and place here in Vienna,
To-morrow be in readiness to go:
Why, so didst thou: seem they religious?
O, my sweet sir, news fitting to the night,
clerks, I'll give thee this neck.
So worthy as thy birth.
When there is nothing living but thee, thou shalt be
Thou flea, thou nit, thou winter-cricket thou!
And feast the army; we have store to do't,
matter to alter it. You have an unspeakable
That such a king should play bo-peep,
The crown o' the earth doth melt. My lord!
Our sovereign process; which imports at full,
Commit'st thy anointed body to the cure
And left behind him Richard, his only son,
He took me by the wrist and held me hard;
With wholesome syrups, drugs and holy prayers,
You are deceived, my substance is not here;
understand thus much English, canst thou love me?
sufferance.
She strokes his cheek!
And stint thou too, I pray thee, nurse, say I.
I thought it was a fault, but knew it not;
Those are they
To this unlook'd for, unprepared pomp.
Before me at this instant.
And so am I for Phebe.
O sleep, thou ape of death, lie dull upon her!
Look he's winding up the watch of his wit;
With his own bolt; the strong-based promontory
Unto their issue.
is herself in the tub.
Was he not held a learned man?
Why, Sir John, what do you think, Sir John? do you
Ay, madam.
'Tis so.
O vain petitioner! beg a greater matter;
Break open shops; nothing can you steal,
Abominable Gloucester, guard thy head;
But yet,--poor Claudio! There is no remedy.
With eager feeding food doth choke the feeder:
This happy night the Frenchmen are secure,
He that is giddy thinks the world turns round.
Enter ANNE PAGE, with wine; MISTRESS FORD and MISTRESS PAGE, following
Cold, indeed; and labour lost:
You the like loss!
By my troth, sir, if I were to live this present
Much work for tears in many an English mother,
And seen the desolation of your streets:
Then cursed she Richard. O, remember, God
The grass whereon thou tread'st the presence strew'd,
And, which was strange, the one so like the other,
Will close the eye of anguish.
Hear him but reason in divinity,
See where they come: I'll warrant they'll
should thunder as it did before, I know not
It will the woefullest division prove
Re-enter MARIA, with MALVOLIO
When you are over-earnest with your Brutus,
perjury, to call a prince's brother villain.
And I will seek for Pindarus the while.
From where he should begin and end, but will
I have reserved alive.
the place, and the condition of this country
At a word, I am not.
That he is a traitor, foul and dangerous,
Why, how now, count! wherefore are you sad?
Save those to God, that run before our business.
evident to any formal capacity; there is no
But stay thee, 'tis the fruits of love I mean.
He hath commanded me to go to bed,
to bed when she list, rise when she list, all is as
Ah, Richard, with the eyes of heavy mind
Now, youthful Troilus, do not these high strains
We go to gain a little patch of ground
And the Lord Hastings, who attended him
SCENE II. The same. A public way or platform leading to the
The imperious churchman, Somerset, Buckingham,
Why, this is the world's soul; and just of the
And to defend ourselves it be a sin
To set the crown once more on Henry's head:
have made to her chastity you shall answer me with
Throwing the money back
Exeunt SALARINO and SALANIO
Keep it not from me, quickly let me have it.
Which heaven and fortune still rewards with plagues.
For wicked Cleon and his wife, when fame
If we will keep in favour with the king,
And made you to suspect me with the Moor.
for he's a mad yeoman that sees his son a gentleman
And all the budding honours on thy crest
In wholesome counsel to his unstaid youth?
Cannot endure my absence.
As mild and gentle as the cradle-babe
Which do command them. With him I sent the queen;
To Bristol castle, which they say is held
A third is fled, that had a hand in it.
saddle. Yet you must be saying, Marcius is proud;
SCENE X. The camp of the Volsces.
Come, bid me do any thing for thee.
This prince hath neither claim'd it nor deserved it;
Ah, Clifford, murder not this innocent child,
Make bold her bashful years with your experience;
to be aged in any kind of course, as it is virtuous
Sweet, so would I:
I need not add more fuel to your fire,
I do not know
I would not have my right Rosalind of this mind,
the daughter of Gerard de Narbon?
And thou opposed, being of no woman born,
Of either, madam.
You, son John, and my cousin Westmoreland
Sweet blowse, you are a beauteous blossom, sure.
Or let me die, to look on death no more!
Close by the ground, to hear our conference.
If thou again say 'Yes.'
This, by the way, I let you understand;
So criminal and in such capital kind,
I saw young Harry, with his beaver on,
Alone, in company, still my care hath been
As I guess, Marcius,
and Thisby whisper.
He shall not die; so much we tender him.
Re-enter CLOTEN
When you come 'cross his humour; faith, he does:
Sir Richard, what think you? have you beheld,
I owe the most, in money and in love,
He hath some meaning in his mad attire:
There pinch the maids as blue as bilberry:
Know you before whom, sir?
Wouldst have me kneel? first let me ask of these,
than the poor thing is here. I'll take it up for
Here none but soldiers and Rome's servitors
The sweetest sleep, and fairest-boding dreams
The time right deadly; I beseech you, go.
Why, then, Lord Talbot there shall talk with him
In action all of precept, he did show me
My love, her mistress, is a gracious moon;
Without more motive, into every brain
Exeunt
And many giddy people flock to him.
Away! though parting be a fretful corrosive,
This is the state of man: to-day he puts forth
SCENE I. A plain near Mortimer's Cross in Herefordshire.
Before this ancient sir, who, it should seem,
miracle. I am eight times thrust through the
Well-a-day that you were, sir
Give with our niece a dowry large enough:
Would I could free't!
Like rats that ravin down their proper bane,
No more than when my daughters call thee mother.
'Ay, by gogs-wouns,' quoth he; and swore so loud,
Dine with my father, drink a health to me;
And pardon'd the deceiver, dwell
Thou comest in such a questionable shape
time, there do muster true gait, eat, speak, and
O heaven! were man
I am no orator, as Brutus is;
Which, like a fountain with an hundred spouts,
house is turned upside down since Robin Ostler died.
In France: 'tis plate of rare device, and jewels
Give him this letter; do it secretly;
offends me to the soul to hear a robustious
May I be bold to acquaint his grace you are gone about it?
The ousel cock so black of hue,
There's none stands under more calumnious tongues
And you, sir, for this chain arrested me.
Will bear up with this exercise, so long
Could make him the receiver of; which he took,
I swear to thee, by Cupid's strongest bow,
To strive for that which resteth in my choice:
is flat knavery, to take upon you another man's name.
Some tricks, some quillets, how to cheat the devil.
To send down Justice for to wreak our wrongs.
Is this a dagger which I see before me,
Resolve me, with all modest haste, which way
I never spake bad word, nor did ill turn
Some of the chiefest princes of the Goths;
Thou hast spoke too much already: get thee gone.
Which keeps me pale! Light thickens; and the crow
Acts little of his will. Tell me, Laertes,
Let's ha't, good soldier.
This wins him, liver and all.
SCENE V. Elsinore. A room in the castle.
it is no matter; thyself upon thyself! The common
Madam, sleeps still.
Who I myself struck down; and thence it is,
O, if I thought that I'ld beat him like a dog!
Caius, coming. If he do, i' faith, and find any
Seem'd all one mutual cry: I never heard
Exeunt BERTRAM, PAROLLES, and army
And, that my love may appear plain and free,
I'll have her; and if it be a match, as nothing is
Cry but 'Ay me!' pronounce but 'love' and 'dove;'
Am sure I scared the Dauphin and his trull,
O dear Diana,
Well, I beseech you, let it be proclaimed betimes
Exeunt BUCKINGHAM and Train
this dagger my sceptre, and this cushion my crown.
The Duke of Somerset is in the Tower.
Out, loathed medicine! hated potion, hence!
Should be! should--buzz!
Why ask you this?
no true traveller: you are more saucy with lords
the tyrant.
The duke is humorous; what he is indeed,
What I can show in this.
Like to the empress' Moor; therefore I kill'd him.
you make grand preparation for a duke de Jamany: by
By the triple Hecate's team,
And, when it bows, stands up. Thou art left, Marcius:
Why then I suck my teeth and catechise
Thee I'll chase hence, thou wolf in sheep's array.
Now make your choice.
Now, good digestion wait on appetite,
Exit
And burgonet of men. He's speaking now,
Reads
You, Polydote, have proved best woodman and
Exeunt all but Adriana, Luciana, Officer and Courtezan
Giving my verdict on the white rose side.
the world at his book. I pray you, ask him some
And leave my followers here to fight and die?
I have promised to make all this matter even.
I died whilst in the womb he stay'd
When, I beseech you? that in his reprieve,
Within
Come, Kate, I'll have your song too.
mutinies in a man's bosom; it fills one full of
a quarrel, but nothing wherefore. O God, that men
Hath told the thievish minutes how they pass,
My playfellow, your hand; this kingly seal
helmed must upon a warranted need give him a better
Deep malice makes too deep incision;
Welcome, brave Hector; welcome, princes all.
Come, let us take a muster speedily:
that knows me to be in love; yet I am in love; but a
Alack the day! he's gone, he's kill'd, he's dead!
I'll have a suit of sables. O heavens! die two
Our people and our peers are both misled,
But as the fierce vexation of a dream.
sufficient. Three thousand ducats; I think I may
That I have, lady: if it will please Caesar
Have I laid my brain in the sun and dried it, that
The rush that lies before him; cries, 'Fool Lepidus!'
Who dares receive it other,
In Pompey's porch: for now, this fearful night,
the--No; I know it begins with some other
How in my words soever she be shent,
And leave his master Antony: for this pains
Ay, that I had not done a thousand more.
With nothing shall be pleased, till he be eased
Re-enter SALISBURY
Who's there? Thersites! Good Thersites, come in and rail.
Of one entire and Perfect chrysolite,
to hear his monstrous devices.
A most outrageous fit of madness took him;
Good morrow, Caesar.
And therefore I'll uncrown him ere't be long.
Exeunt all but BENEDICK and BEATRICE
Pass by and curse thy fill, but pass and stay
So likely to report themselves: the cutter
If it be so, sir, that you are the man
My lord, your valiant kinsman, Faulconbridge,
Bear me forthwith unto his creditor,
For notes of sorrow out of tune are worse
Whose liquor hath this virtuous property,
It is a mind
Which thou pour'st down from these swelling heavens
[Reads]  'Imprimis, a loose-bodied gown:'
My heart doth joy that yet in all my life
Thy wife hath dream'd; thy mother hath had visions;
every lane's end, every shop, church, session,
Why even what fashion thou best likest, Lucetta.
Enter SILVIA
Of hounds and echo in conjunction.
If ever love had interest in his liver,
Correction and instruction must both work
Enter CLEOPATRA, attended
This was an ill beginning of the night:
Divided from herself and her fair judgment,
society,--which in the boorish is company,--of this
For the demand of our neglected tribute
Heard you this, Gonzalo?
And this her easy-held imprisonment
Come, noble Burgundy.
My dread lord,
Small time, but in that small most greatly lived
Could not believe but that I was in hell,
Away with it! come, let me have a bigger.
name? why dost thou not speak, Elbow?
And little look'd for at your helping hands.
chaste, constant-qualified and less attemptable
You keep a constant temper.
In spring time,  and c.
I confess the cape.
My way is now to hie home to his house,
If you offend him, I for him defy you.
Inquire at London, 'mongst the taverns there,
Pray, let us go.
None, my lord.
Here stooping to your clemency,
Of estimation and command in arms.
So honour cross it from the north to south,
At what it did so freely? From this time
To be i' the field, and ask 'what news?' of me!
Knocking within
And never gives to truth and virtue that
I prithee, who doth he trot withal?
The mad-brain'd bridegroom took him such a cuff
Bear her this jewel, pledge of my affection.
Yes, madam, fair.
But then I saw no harm, and then I heard
My royal choice.
All points of my command.
On unreprievable condemned blood.
Is fashion'd for the journey, dull and heavy.
A rhapsody of words: heaven's face doth glow:
Should hold her loathed and his spirits should hunt
Sir Valentine, whither away so fast?
And you of yours, my lord! I say no more,
That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,
Sir, I am a true labourer: I earn that I eat, get
Upon advantage.
Devoured by the unexpected flood.
How!
The present power of life, but in short time
ah! whoreson caterpillars! bacon-fed knaves! they
Provoked by my offence.
Go, my dread lord, to your great-grandsire's tomb,
Wallon and Picardy are friends to us,
And I must to Lorenzo and the rest:
But let desert in pure election shine,
For hunting was his daily exercise.
And so supplant you for ingratitude,
Thanks, sweet Lavinia. Romans, let us go;
Alas, poor man! grief has so wrought on him,
Does pay thy labour richly; go.
Your lady's love against some other maid
Appear before us? We'll yet enlarge that man,
Why, then I will do what your grace commands.
Pitied nor hated, to the face of peril
Her times of preservation, which perforce
As lean-faced Envy in her loathsome cave:
ripe, and that's the right virtue of the medlar.
SCENE II. The same. A hall in Timon's house.
damnable. If you do love Rosalind so near the heart
Exeunt LYSANDER and DEMETRIUS
Re-enter PETRUCHIO
And I'll withdraw me and my bloody power:
Nay, come, let's go together.
And let me say, that never wept before,
Were still at odds, being but three.
Draw, you rascal: you come with letters against the
And on the sixth to turn thy hated back
Shall pierce a jot. There's gold to pay soldiers:
She speaks much of her father; says she hears
Why, then, farewell;
you enough; and when you have seen more and heard
Which he forswore most monstrously to have.
My Lord of Warwick, and my brother Gloucester,
Reads from a scroll
What handkerchief?
mourners, and stay dinner.
time and worms have eaten them, but not for love.
for you did bring me out.
no stronger than the word of a tapster; they are
'Tis like, my lord, you will not keep your hour.
I have't. It is engender'd. Hell and night
O monstrous!
Laying PARIS in the tomb
by your leave, good mistress.
In Volscian breasts. That we have been familiar,
That I may make his lordship understand
It is.
But one, poor one, one poor and loving child,
You or any man living may be drunk! at a time, man.
Were they all made such men. How now, Pisanio!
Call her again.
live, he had suffered for't; you shall judge. He
Some messenger betwixt me and the peers;
Madam, the young gentleman of the Count Orsino's is
But only Sycorax my dam and she;
For 'tis a sign of love; and love to Richard
With any scruple; your scope is as mine own
Speak it here:
My tears are now prevailing orators.
The duty of the day: she looks us like
But now I know her: if she be a traitor,
My speech should fall into such vile success
I think not of them:
The fear of that withholds my present aid.
Enter CRESSIDA and ALEXANDER
I'll be your purse-bearer and leave you
And for this cause awhile we must neglect
Me and thy crying self.
And practising upon his peace and quiet
I am wrapp'd in dismal thinkings.
To make a seemly answer to such persons.
Patience, good sir,
Do you bandy looks with me, you rascal?
Behold, behold. where Madam Mitigation comes! I
at your command; I will run.
Thy father! O villain! he is a sailmaker in Bergamo.
Save you, worthy general!
SCENE I. The Grecian camp. Before Achilles' tent.
O, let me not be mad, not mad, sweet heaven
For now hath time made me his numbering clock:
From my succession wipe me, father; I
Notorious wrong.
I know we shall have revelling to-night:
Go with me to the king: 'tis wonderful
With quiet hours; for I do protest,
Kingdom'd Achilles in commotion rages
Ere he by sickness had been visited:
Ford's wife: use your art of wooing; win her to
But to your protestation; let me hear
Hast practised on man's life: close pent-up guilts,
This cherry nose,
Do you think, my lords,
To these great fellows: sound and be hang'd, sound out!
I promise, I am afraid to hear you tell it.
May to your wishes pleasure bring
Full of decay and failing? O monument
How far off lie these armies?
My sovereign liege, no letters; and few words,
clap upon you two or three probable lies: but we
charity to my wit: do not think it so unwholesome.
Like twenty torches join'd, and yet his hand,
In different beds of lust; and never learn'd
I will not hear you.
Anne Page is, at a farm-house a-feasting; and thou
Well, sir, I hope, when I do it, I shall do it on a
Ay.
Were very pregnant and potential spurs
Out of the chamber with her! Were I a tyrant,
Your loop'd and window'd raggedness, defend you
This is he, my master said,
A good swift simile, but something currish.
If I see any thing to-night why I should not marry
For every storm that blows: I, to bear this,
Even in the bosom of our adversaries.
If to reprove you for this suit of yours,
But to the purpose--for we cite our faults,
Ay, sir; and he deserves so to be called for his
If you'll stand fast, we'll beat them to their wives,
Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear:
That first that ever touch'd him--he was carried
For many good and great deserts to Rome:
out of hope.
Ha! Portia!
And wake him to the answer, think you?
COUNTESS
Which fear, not reverence, makes thee to except.
Sir Proteus, save you! Saw you my master?
His said he did; and with his deed did crown
When Gloucester says the word, King Henry goes;
Early to-morrow will we rise, and hence.
What is this? sport?
mopping and mowing, who since possesses chambermaids
'Tis not my speeches that you do mislike,
crumbs. A stoup of wine, Maria!
Who's there?
Clean over-blown, themselves, the conquerors.
But, like a cloistress, she will veiled walk
Give me your hand: have you no more to say?
Whose grossness little characters sum up:
found so severe, that he hath forced me to tell him
And every one with claps can sound,
Re-enter MALVOLIO
I should be wise, for honesty's a fool
Because he married me before to Romeo?
Butchers and villains! bloody cannibals!
And we fairies, that do run
And then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh,
I thank you for this comfort. Fare you well, good father.
I beseech you, sir, pardon me: it is a letter
Be yoked with his that did betray the Best!
So sore as keeping safe Nerissa's ring.
And you must needs bestow her funeral;
Like rats, oft bite the holy cords a-twain
Detains him from Cordelia.
ANTIPHOLUS
Summon their general unto the wall.
Sir Thomas Lovel and Lord Marquis Dorset,
Demand.
I will not fail her; speak it privately.
For 'tis a studied, not a present thought,
I'll be sworn,
Withdraws
Saltiers, and they have a dance which the wenches
This proffer'd benefit of dignity;
Do even drag me homeward: which to hinder
You give your wife too unkind a cause of grief:
O, the father, how he holds his countenance!
Were crack'd of kitchen-trolls, or his description
Must yield to such inevitable shame
My master knows not but I am gone hence;
Here comes his grace in person. My noble uncle!
Mine honour is my life; both grow in one:
Have in these parts from morn till even fought
Write loyal cantons of contemned love
Varying in subjects as the eye doth roll
have me? Put off your maiden blushes; avouch the
Exit
Disdain to call us lord, and Picardy
Go thou with them; and in the emperor's court
Our tears are not yet brew'd.
He was not so resolved when last we spake together.
Some subtilties o' the isle, that will not let you
they laugh at him and beat him. I am sure he is in
Not one word more, my maids; break off, break off.
I hazarded the loss of whom I loved.
And the particular accidents gone by
Let her hang me: he that is well hanged in this
I have too few to take my leave of you,
Upon that I kiss your hand, and I call you my queen.
Sir, no; his indignation derives itself out of a
I'll prove the prettier fellow of the two,
I marvel thy master hath not eaten thee for a word;
off his drum in any hand.
Thou slewest my husband Henry in the Tower,
Thou told'st me, when we came from horse, the place
Boy, bristle thy courage up; for Falstaff he is dead,
For my part, if a lie may do thee grace,
Hath rotted ere his youth attain'd a beard;
him, thinkest thou? And what has he sent now?
Who, having seen me in my worst estate,
Must make content with his fortunes fit,
May sweep to my revenge.
Pray you, do.
Nothing of that wonderful promise, to read him by
And she, mistaken, seems to dote on me.
I could not but by her. The other motive,
And frame your mind to mirth and merriment,
To fight on Edward's party for the crown;
an old cloak makes a new jerkin; a withered
The labour we delight in physics pain.
Do.
in a retreat he outruns any lackey; marry, in coming
Preach some philosophy to make me mad,
I am gone for ever.
I pray you, is Signior Mountanto returned from the
What said my man, when my betossed soul
Shall I forget myself to be myself?
But fare thee well, there is a ducat for thee:
Bury him where you can; he comes not here.
Do as I bid thee, or rather do thy pleasure;
See! Iachimo!
Is to be frighted out of fear; and in that mood
To EDGAR
Outlive thy glory, like my wretched self!
Yes, 'faith heartily.
Katharine his daughter, and with her, to dowry,
One cried 'God bless us!' and 'Amen' the other;
Oft have I heard of you, my Lord Biron,
his guts in his head, I'll tell you what I say of
Where, by the loss of maidenhead,
That shall distil from these two ancient urns,
The noise was here. Ha! no more moving?
Come, go: I will fall prostrate at his feet
Jove, I thank thee: I will smile; I will do
hole, the cuckold to his horn, as a scolding queen
I'll prove mine honour and mine honesty
Enter BENVOLIO and ROMEO
and undo a great deal of honoured! Servilius, now,
that I may proceed in my speech.
Speak, hands for me!
I'll manacle thy neck and feet together:
Must fill, or else my project fails,
Knowing nought, like dogs, but following.
The Duke of Norfolk, sprightfully and bold,
I have, as when the sun doth light a storm,
nutmegs, seven; a race or two of ginger, but that I
How! poor? look upon his face; what call you rich?
The tyrannous and bloody deed is done.
I will help you to't. But tell me true, are you
You have not sought it! how comes it, then?
Thou must not take my former sharpness ill:
And justify you traitors: at this time
But I'll set down the pegs that make this music,
Will kneel to him with thanks.
Heaven and fortune bar me happy hours!
And when the hardiest warriors did retire,
would have none but knaves follow it, since a fool gives it.
best grace of wit will shortly turn into silence,
ACT V
That to close prison he commanded her,
And do not seek to take your change upon you,
Publius, Publius, what hast thou done?
suspicious;
of the forest and to couple us.
You shall hear one anon.
SCENE X. Another part of the plains.
in private;
My house is not a grange.
To fight with Glendower and the Earl of March.
What's the matter, lieutenant?
To do your pleasure and continue friends.
Most mighty duke, behold a man much wrong'd.
'tis not amiss we tender our loves to him, in this
Which read and not expounded, 'tis decreed,
Which was sometime his general; who loved him
But to procrastinate his lifeless end.
To tear the garter from thy craven's leg,
I have fair meanings, sir.
Into the tumbling billows of the main.
His realm a slaughter-house, his subjects slain,
He hath not touch'd you yet. I am young;
Which way should be go? how should I bestow him?
But Rosaline, you have a favour too:
Where then
I weigh it lightly, were it heavier.
Say thou wilt course; thy greyhounds are as swift
the brain awe a man from the career of his humour?
But only they have privilege to live.
What, shall we stab him as he sleeps?
me?
Content, content.
As we do air, fast as 'twas minister'd,
there is, sir, an aery of children, little eyases,
King John, this is the very sum of all;
lord of the council rated me the other day in the
Mine host of the Garter!
For still her cheeks possess the same
SCENE III. The same. Street before Pandarus' house.
To make this bitter to thee.
And on your finger in the night I'll put
These gloves the count sent me; they are an
So could I too.
Ah me! how sweet is love itself possess'd,
henceforward, upon pain of death.
Love, therefore, and tongue-tied simplicity
They have proclaim'd their malefactions;
But though my cates be mean, take them in good part;
Am that Belarius whom you sometime banish'd:
I made to it, to know of whence you are.
sir, we had but two in the house, which at that very
To the Tribunes
And teach your ears to list me with more heed.
To say this boy were like me. Come, sir page,
So much fairer
As well we may, if not through your neglect,
Nurse! What should she do here?
What should you fear?
As did the youthful Paris once to Greece,
That by their witchcraft thus have marked me.
half stewed in grease, like a Dutch dish, to be
Believe not all; or, if you must believe,
You may light on a husband that hath no beard.
If that the devil and mischance look big
Bind the offender,
For I have seen more years, I'm sure, than ye.
With the rude multitude till I return.
As I live,
And bear with mildness my misfortune's cross;
A cold premeditation for my purpose!
Enter ANTONY
Marry, and shall. But how now, Sir John Hume!
Give me your hand. Come you from old Bellario?
contemplation are you in?
To enter human hearing, from Argier,
I warrant thee; if I do not act it, hiss me.
All o'erjoy'd,
saving your honour's reverence, for stewed prunes;
I know you'ld fain be gone. An officer!
Dromio, go bid the servants spread for dinner.
How long is that since?
'Thou maiden youth, be vanquish'd by a maid:'
Sir, you seem a sober ancient gentleman by your
For my respects are better than they seem
Shall never see it but a holiday.
My tears will choke me, if I ope my mouth.
I take all and your several visitations
And here he writes that he did buy a poison
He being her pupil, to become her tutor.
So should a murderer look, so dead, so grim.
Why, there's the privilege your beauty bears:
To you as much, sir! I am beholding to you
His word is more than the miraculous harp; he hath
Marcus, for thy sake and thy brother's here,
Or, if he do, it needs must be by stealth.
Discuss unto me; art thou officer?
You have beguiled me with a counterfeit
That's Hector, that, that, look you, that; there's a
I know them both.
Noise within
To QUEEN MARGARET
Where great Aufidius lies: is he in Antium?
To bring him in! Trust me, I could do much,--
To RATCLIFF
The summer still doth tend upon my state;
Enter OLIVER
In faith, my lord, you are too wilful-blame;
He fires the proud tops of the eastern pines
So opposite to marriage that she shunned
Pray you, walk near: I'll speak with you anon.
To die upon the bed my father died,
Knocking
I think my wife be honest and think she is not;
He writes me here, that inward sickness--
grow to, he had a kind of taste; well, my conscience
A halter pardon him! and hell gnaw his bones!
Brook is his name?
Desires your highness' company.
It hath done to me the worst. Yet, for the love
That were enwombed mine: 'tis often seen
Are masters to their females, and their lords:
As the cony that you see dwell where she is kindled.
Most spend their mouths when what they seem to threaten
A good sharp fellow: I will send for him; and
I dare not know, my lord.
Father, and in that name doth nature speak,--
Is my strict fast; I mean, my children's looks;
Did he not, contrary to form of law,
then, 'tis time to do't.--Hell is murky!--Fie, my
And let our hearts, as subtle masters do,
Give't me again: poor lady, she'll run mad
Scurvy knave! I am none of his flirt-gills; I am
Exit
And evils imminent; and on her knee
Exit
ta'en from me, and these detestable things put upon
The king and prince at prayers! let's assist them,
Come, come with me, and we will make short work;
Hark! now I hear them,--Ding-dong, bell.
in King Cambyses' vein.
Between the acting of a dreadful thing
And drown'd.
Son to the elder brother of this man,
et cetera. Do this.
O worthy Goth, this is the incarnate devil
To-morrow morning let us meet him then.
conscience; which is, indeed, sir, a mender of bad soles.
God save the king! God save the king!
Unless he do profane, steal, or usurp.
By innocence I swear, and by my youth
The wife I chose? there can be no evasion
And therein show'd like enemies.
That will ask some tears in the true performing of
oak not to be wind-shaken.
With swifter spleen than powder can enforce,
Withal, as large a charter as the wind,
Of all that virtue love for virtue loved:
Thou shalt not do't.
And thus hath so bestirr'd thee in thy sleep,
It shall;
SCENE III. Dunsinane. A room in the castle.
Thy dangerous stoutness, for I mock at death
Out, and alas! that was my lady's voice.
By desperate appliance are relieved,
Some sleeves, some hats, from yielders all
In my behavior to the majesty,
very strangler of their amity: Octavia is of a
But I have that within which passeth show;
The tongues of mocking wenches are as keen
The swelling difference of your settled hate:
O, many
Enter the Boy with a linstock
And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
As now again to snatch our palm from palm,
of her breath.'
They must lie there: go carry them; and smear
For 'tis of aspics' tongues!
As you shall well be satisfied withal.
While greasy Joan doth keel the pot.
That will I show you presently.
coffer, chest, trunk, well, vault, but he hath an
friendship falls off, brothers divide: in
That e'er I sigh'd for: pity move my father
You peasant swain! you whoreson malt-horse drudge!
because I have railed so long against marriage: but
I gave my love a ring and made him swear
And sweet revenge grows harsh.
Monster, come, put some lime upon your fingers, and
Then, sweet my lord, I'll call mine uncle down;
take me from this world with treachery and devise
Now, Hector, I have fed mine eyes on thee;
SCENE IV. The court.
defender of them, and, in a violent popular
Enter ALBANY
With full as many signs of deadly hate,
What letter is this same? What's here? 'To Silvia'!
Giving a paper
Lead'st first to win some vantage.
Enter SATURNINUS, TAMORA, DEMETRIUS, CHIRON,  Lords, and others; SATURNINUS with the arrows in his hand that TITUS shot
And in defence of my lord's worthiness,
The cowslips tall her pensioners be:
Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY
This sight would make him do a desperate turn,
O, yes, it doth; a thousand-fold it doth.
Art thou not, fatal vision, sensible
Not so well as plain-dealing, which will not cost a
If haply won, perhaps a hapless gain;
I now perceive, it was not altogether your
dismiss the controversy bleeding the more entangled
Let not my cold words here accuse my zeal:
You fillip me o' the head.
They must take it in sense that feel it.
Approve their truths by Troilus: when their rhymes,
Are you meditating on virginity?
Shall yield the other in the right opinion.
For, as I think, they do command him home,
of an If, as, 'If you said so, then I said so;' and
With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
And pall thee in the dunnest smoke of hell,
Well, madam.
Honour, high honour and renown,
Where rude misgovern'd hands from windows' tops
Words, vows, gifts, tears, and love's full sacrifice,
Renowned Titus, more than half my soul,--
'Tis Hymen peoples every town;
The selfsame sun that shines upon his court
[To the Sailor of Mytilene]  Where is lord Helicanus?
It back to Tybalt, whose dexterity,
That cannot be; the noise of thy cross-bow
linguist and the armipotent soldier.
But, my good lord, this boy is forest-born,
one skull, they would fly east, west, north, south,
That, ere she sleep, has thrice her prayers said,
The fold stands empty in the drowned field,
Whiles thus you mock it! how, in stripping it,
Take that of me, my friend, who have the power
And all the fertile land within that bound,
be so, good Corporal Nym.
I' faith, or I either?
Is little Cupid's crafty arrow made,
Gone to be married! gone to swear a peace!
It is too true an evil: gone she is;
Have you heard any imputation to the contrary?
And makes as healthful music: it is not madness
Nature hath framed strange fellows in her time:
Let us be jocund: will you troll the catch
But love, dear love, and our aged father's right:
We will descend and fold him in our arms.
She will not stay the siege of loving terms,
And given to Lartius and to Marcius battle:
Macduff, this noble passion,
you; albeit, I confess, your coming before me is
It is myself I mean: in whom I know
Not light them for themselves; for if our virtues
Address'd a mighty power; which were on foot,
As to throw out our eyes for brave Othello,
The gentleness of all the gods go with thee!
between, but small thanks for my labour.
And thou mis-shapen Dick, I tell ye all
His wits begin to unsettle.
ANTIPHOLUS
I am possess'd with an adulterate blot;
change your trade; I'll be your tapster still.
Whilst the screech-owl, screeching loud,
To this supposed, or else to let him suffer;
And that thy tongue some say of breeding breathes,
By the north pole, I do challenge thee.
thy mind is a very opal. I would have men of such
My legs can keep no pace with my desires.
To his experienced tongue, yet let it please both,
Strives Bolingbroke to be as great as we?
To make the fox surveyor of the fold?
Bearing the badge of faith, to prove them true?
SCENE V. Inverness. Macbeth's castle.
Some to discover islands far away;
Enter GREMIO, and LUCENTIO disguised
I cannot speak, nor think
In nature there's no blemish but the mind;
To the most of men this is a Caliban
I, in probation of a sisterhood,
I'll follow, sir. But first, an't please the gods,
Putting on the ring
To the conflicting elements exposed,
What?
His study is his tilt-yard, and his loves
If thou so yield him, there is gold, and here
If I do lie and do
Is there no way for men to be but women
Thou'rt an honest man.
I'll halt after.
Enter CAPHIS, and the Servants of Isidore and Varro
Negligent student! learn her by heart.
Coming and going with thy honey breath.
Who, in her duty and obedience, mark,
SCENE II. Kimbolton.
O Dardanius!
Hang loose about him, like a giant's robe
Come to me at your convenient leisure, and you shall
So, sir, heartily well met, and most glad of your company.
Nothing, but this is so.
Exeunt DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, and LEONATO
Well, forward, forward! thus the bowl should run,
Exit
Was he not here?
grain enough!
You may be armed and appointed well:
Indeed, you come near me now, Hal; for we that take
Being none of his, refuse him: this concludes;
Come, come, sweet emperor; come, Andronicus;
And wherein Rome hath done you any scath,
Ay, good my lord. Why should you say Cressida? no,
And weak we are and cannot shun pursuit.
Exit POLONIUS
So you grant pasture for me.
I shall sooner rail thee into wit and holiness: but,
As confident as is the falcon's flight
To me can life be no commodity:
If thou art fickle, what dost thou with him.
They sell the pasture now to buy the horse,
Their touch affrights me as a serpent's sting.
Did you not speak to it?
Yes, when his holy state is touch'd so near.
Why dost thou call him a knave?  What's his offence?
How now, masters!
Enter Pandar, Bawd, and BOULT
Favours that keep within. Come, Escalus,
My humour shall not cool: I will incense Page to
Sirrah, Falstaff and the rest of the thieves are at
In being Coriolanus.
will depart unkissed.
How probable I do not know--that Marcius,
Humanely taken, all, all lost, quite lost;
of men's bodies? Well, a horn for my money, when
That troop with majesty. Ourself, by monthly course,
DON
And never of the Nevils' noble race.
Or art thou base, common and popular?
Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER
Hautboys and torches. Enter a Sewer, and divers  Servants with dishes and service, and pass over the stage. Then enter MACBETH
she can knit him a stock?
I'll wait upon them: I am ready.
Are in great grievance: there have been commissions
What likelihood of his amendment, lords?
Enter TOUCHSTONE
How many worthy princes' bloods were shed,
for I was told you were in a consumption.
Then have my lips the sin that they have took.
And ever will--though he do shake me off
Have shown to thee such a declining day,
Image of pride, why should I hold my peace?
By gar, de herring is no dead so as I vill kill him.
I am sworn,
Exit
If it be fond, call it a woman's fear;
spirits and fires!
He dreads his wife.
By noting of the lady I have mark'd
Some dozen Romans of us and your lord--
Where have I been! Nay, how now! where are you?
We must not only arm to invade the French,
But brats and beggary, in self-figured knot;
Now, Cinna: now, Metellus: what, Trebonius!
Drum afar off
If then we shall shake off our slavish yoke,
The usurper Richard; who, being at Salisbury,
Hercules; the pedant, Judas Maccabaeus: And if
And how by this their child shall be advanced,
Hath not essentially but by circumstance
Ladies, withdraw: the gallants are at hand.
Cominius, no.
My sister may receive it much more worse,
You, his false hopes, the trust of England's honour,
I'll teach them to prevent wild Alcibiades' wrath.
Your grace attended to their sugar'd words,
Gallops the zodiac in his glistering coach,
'school,' 'fool,' a babbling rhyme; very ominous
Come you, sir: if justice cannot tame you, she
Lend me the letter; let me see what news.
Than my weak-hearted enemies dare offer.
As next the king he was successive heir,
I fear it is too choleric a meat.
Whose men and dames so jetted and adorn'd,
Have I not strove to love, although I knew
He is drunk now: where had he wine?
way to the everlasting bonfire.
What were it but to make my sorrow greater?
What, my good lord?
Enter CLOTEN and two Lords
When devils will the blackest sins put on,
Who strongly hath set footing in this land:
As if a double hunt were heard at once,
fellowship in a cry of players, sir?
Enter a Lady
For God's sake let him have 'em; to keep them here,
Tis deadly sin to keep that oath, my lord,
And lead you even to death: meantime forbear,
Untimely comes this hurt: give me your arm.
Will in concealment wrap me up awhile;
is it a spare life, look you, it fits my humour well;
What pain it cost, what danger. God's!
Sweet is the country, because full of riches;
And I did give't my husband.
And you that love the commons, follow me.
But few of any sort, and none of name.
That ever lived.
Have turn'd mine eye and wept. But, good Pisanio,
[Aside to CLARENCE]  Nay, whip me then: he'll rather
To you your father should be as a god;
Lord Titus, by your leave, this maid is mine.
you your kindred had made my eyes water ere now. I
To weed this wormwood from your fruitful brain,
a displeasure against you, look you,--
Alas the day!
and I am yet so near the manners of my mother, that
Therefore this order hath Baptista ta'en,
Sleeps. IACHIMO comes from the trunk
I will lead forth my soldiers to the plain,
Ay, springes to catch woodcocks. I do know,
In Richard's time,--what do you call the place?--
To sauce thy dishes.
Master, knock the door hard.
Ay, forsooth.
Then, I prithee, be merry; thy wit shall ne'er go
Wilt thou resign them and lay down thy arms?
Than I do at this hour joy o'er myself.
Exit Poins
Where no priest shovels in dust. O cursed wretch,
His valour shown upon our crests to-day
For your own reasons turn into your bosoms,
Did we, my lord?
epilogues. What a case am I in then, that am
Had our great palace the capacity
wine loved I deeply, dice dearly: and in woman
For oaths are straws, men's faiths are wafer-cakes,
A sailor's wife had chestnuts in her lap,
And yet but justice; for though
at Shrewsbury.
Whose private with me of the Dauphin's love
Well met, Master Ford.
Exit First Player
Spoke to your deservings like a chronicle,
To bring me where to speak with Madam Silvia.
Of knaves once more; my cook and I'll provide.
Till Norfolk be repeal'd: repeal'd he shall be,
And Regan with him: have you nothing said
Enter a Messenger
But then the mind much sufferance doth o'er skip,
Is he gone?
[To COMINIUS]                Lead you on.
The secret of your conference?
Lysander, look how I do quake with fear:
And I will see thee.
In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups;
As will to greatness dedicate themselves,
I prithee, call't. For this ungentle business
so many talents, nay, urged extremely for't and
Benedick bear it, pluck off the bull's horns and set
Hark you, sir, do you know where ye are?
by have some speech with you: the satisfaction I
Blemish'd his gracious dam: this is not, no,
Upon the beauty of all parts besides,
physician to comment on your malady.
My good lords, hitherto, in all the progress
Your wisdom is consumed in confidence.
scourged by the sequent effects: love cools,
heavenly compulsion; knaves, thieves, and
marriage than the love of the parties.
O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure hadst thou!
Or, if thou follow me, do not believe
Join'd with Aufidius, leads a power 'gainst Rome,
Hail, Caesar! read this schedule.
Like one that means his proper harm, in manacles,
laid on him by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.
grown a very land-fish, language-less, a monster.
horses ran away, how her bridle was burst, how I
It is noised he hath a mass of treasure.
He that is strucken blind cannot forget
Or make my ill the advantage of my good.
bring the device to the bar and crown thee for a
with thy tale.
which nourisheth it; and the elements once out of
Let it appear so; make your vaunting true,
But three days longer, on the pain of death.
With a proud heart he wore his humble weeds.
Will you set your wit to a fool's?
though absent, shook hands, as over a vast, and
For happy wife, a most distressed widow;
mortal wretch,
come, shall we about it?
they say one would speak to her and stand in hope of
With hasty Germans and blunt Hollanders,
No, noble Titus, but entreat of thee
It is no boast, being ask'd, to say we are.
If it be so, yet bragless let it be;
Ay, Greek; and that shall be divulged well
What think'st thou of the gentle Proteus?
White-beards have arm'd their thin and hairless scalps
Then, if you speak, you must not show your face,
All other devils that suggest by treasons
Nor play at subtle games; fair virtues all,
Virtue and that part of philosophy
To VIOLA
Readins, of Maidenhead, of Colebrook, of horses and
I must advance the colours of my love
Of that black name, Edward, Black Prince of Wales;
Caius Marcius Coriolanus!
He was in the right; and so indeed it is.
down. They say this Angelo was not made by man and
'Faith, to say truth, brown and not brown.
My studied purposes requite; which went
Consuming means, soon preys upon itself.
My country's good with a respect more tender,
But that between us we can kill a fly
Shall satisfy your father.
Stick fiery off indeed.
For 'tis my limited service.
That is another's lawful promised love.
Sometime in Greece,--
This coronet part betwixt you.
Marry, this, sir, is proclaim'd through all our host:
deserve at my hand; but we must do good against evil.
A pair of stocks, you rogue!
And brought desired help from Burgundy:
Good fortune, worthy soldier; and farewell.
Or close the wall up with our English dead.
No, foolish tribune, no; no son of mine,
''Tis dinner-time,' quoth I; 'My gold!' quoth he;
Give you all greetings that a king, at friend,
Patience, good sir.
Worthy to be a rebel, for to that
Gold strew'd i' the floor. Here's money for my meat:
Exit SIMPLE
Lucetta, as thou lovest me, let me have
Against my very heart. Poor souls, they perish'd.
you? You will lose your reputation.
He and his forces enter the city
accustomed crossness.
She that is queen of Tunis; she that dwells
Whose house, whose bed, whose meal, and exercise,
By thy dame Partlet here. Take up the bastard;
tell you, that, though she harbours you as her
Why, how dost thou, man? what is the matter with thee?
No occupation; all men idle, all;
Nor to one place; nor is my whole estate
And each of them had twenty times their power,
some strange thing toward, Edmund; pray you, be careful.
spirit, what devil suggests this imagination? I
That shall have cause to curse the Dauphin's scorn.
Even ripe for marriage-rite; this maid
gentlemen.
And, by thy guess, how nigh is Clarence now?
This visitation shows it.
And, to that dauntless temper of his mind,
At Pentapolis the fair Thaisa.
The very virtue of compassion in thee,
Re-enter PAGE
That young Octavius and Mark Antony
Sir, your pennyworth is good, an your goose be fat.
Above all princes, in committing freely
I had thought I had had men of some understanding
I chanced on this letter.
Recantation! My lord! my master!
There's half-a-dozen sweets.
Enforce their charity. Poor Turlygod! poor Tom!
Sets all on hazard: and hither am I come
The dukedom yet unbow'd--alas, poor Milan!--
God's is the quarrel; for God's substitute,
First, the fair reverence of your highness curbs me
What promise, chuck?
O, by your leave, I pray you,
Enter PISANIO
To beaten Douglas; and the Earl of Athol,
Follows the choking.
I thank you. Let's withdraw;
But say this weed her love from Valentine,
And say 'Will't please your lordship cool your hands?'
Though inclination be as sharp as will:
That, when he please again to be himself,
all foul ways! Was ever man so beaten? was ever
Is not your father grown incapable
Since thou hast far to go, bear not along
Beggar the estimation which you prized
it, and others, whose judgments in such matters
Light on the man! Come hither, gentle mistress:
Though in the trade of war I have slain men,
Hath sent you here this ring, and doth entreat
Yet, wooing thee, I found thee of more value
But honour thee, and will do till I die:
For sweet discourses in our time to come.
likes. 'Tis a commodity will lose the gloss with
A worthy pioner! Once more remove, good friends.
Exeunt
Letters, my lord, from Hamlet:
By my troth, I'll go with thee to the lane's end:
I too: he does it with a better grace, but I do it
Thou antic death, which laugh'st us here to scorn,
and so was he: but we rose both at an instant and
That ring's a thousand proofs.
To them the legions garrison'd in Gailia,
may I be so bold to know the cause of your coming?
Pursue each other, or shall be divided
And teach lavoltas high and swift corantos;
Lions with toils and men with flatterers;
To insinuate, flatter, bow, and bend my limbs:
I would it were,
And give me leave,
Look for the news that the Guildhall affords.
[Aside]  I'll no more drumming; a plague of all
And all the troops of English after him.
As they pinch one another by the disposition, he
If he revenge it not, yet will his friends;
A prince most prudent, of an excellent
This is not well, rash and unbridled boy.
Nor leave not one behind that doth not wish
I'll then discourse our woes, felt several years,
Till we have done at sea. Do not exceed
And his unkindness may defeat my life,
Yet living in my glass; even such and so
He heareth not, he stirreth not, he moveth not;
Well, I will call Beatrice to you, who I think hath legs.
Your answer to that.
Get thee gone:
I have outstood my time; which is material
ACT I
If we choose by the horns, yourself come not near.
How in my strength you please. For you, Edmund,
The emptier ever dancing in the air,
this from Hero. They seem to pity the lady: it
And take him from our presence.
Of you that yet are well.
More stronger to direct you than yourself,
What say you, lords? Why, this was quite forgot.
we'll to Sutton Co'fil' tonight.
Ha?
Then she is well, and nothing can be ill:
He cuts their throats
Your valour puts well forth: pray, follow.
Had I expected thee. How now, my brother!
Most true, forsooth; and many time and oft
And so tell your master.
What is't?
To carry that which I would have refused,
Doth he hear it? no. 'Tis insensible, then. Yea,
Are arch'd so high that giants may jet through
To quit me of them throughly.
Re-enter LUCIUS with LIGARIUS
well; Lucifer, well; Barbason, well; yet they are
I am not I, if there be such an I;
Love, and be silent.
There is no sure foundation set on blood,
Marry, well said; very well said. Look you, sir,
Be patient, gentle Earl of Westmoreland.
Or is it Dian, habited like her,
Very ill too.
Intend my travel, where I'll hear from thee;
And by her presence still renew his sorrows.
By my troth, it is well said; 'for himself to mar,'
A thing
And so, good rest.
The gods of Greece protect you!
So let it now; for it has been while going by.
Yet I should kill thee with much cherishing.
me to-morrow, and you shall find me a grave man. I
Tullus Aufidius will appear well in these wars, his
And piece the way out with a heavy heart.
It almost turns my dangerous nature mild.
I see no reason why a king of years
So sought'st to hinder.
time has yet to come that she was ever respected
you can the getting up of the negro's belly: the
thou alive?
Hear me, my love: be thou but true of heart,--
This maid will not serve your turn, sir.
And what not done, that thou hast cause to rue,
Enter DEMETRIUS and CHIRON with LAVINIA, ravished; her hands cut off, and her tongue cut out
Hector's a gallant man.
may drink thy tidings.
To angle for your thoughts: but you are wise,
We may boldly spend upon the hope of what
What shall I do? There is a gentleman my dear
Our just and lineal entrance to our own;
Why strew'st thou sugar on that bottled spider,
Than in their countenance. Will you hear the letter?
I am not prone to weeping, as our sex
Hence! hang not on my garments.
And is't not pity, O my grieved friends,
But not a niggard of your speech: how goes't?
Here, my lord.
They run off
With love's light wings did I o'er-perch these walls;
The black prince, sir; alias, the prince of
That at the parting all the church did echo:
Then in mine own person I die.
Sir, will you hear me?
Of her two branches, those sweet ornaments,
I'll give no wound to thee. Therefore, good heavens,
When shall we see again?
are.
the prince your brother, I owe you all duty.
Exit ARIEL
Whose father slew my father, he shall die.
Ere the leviathan can swim a league.
say he lies?
Exeunt
I kill'd not thee with half so good a will.
And show the reason of our Caesar's death:
Ah, ha! Come, some music! come, the recorders!
but if she be less than an honest woman, she is
Doctor, your service for this time is ended;
love. Read thou this challenge; mark but the
Never talk to me; I will weep.
Have we ramm'd up our gates against the world.
Thy mother's name is ominous to children.
Remains in danger of her former tooth.
by the king than by that red-tailed humble-bee I speak of.
Like captives bound to a triumphant car.
Shower'd on me daily, have been more than could
Your worship's friend and Launcelot, sir.
And run a tilt at death within a chair?
We are convented
violent and unruly. Go you to Angelo; answer his
Hath wisdom's warrant and the help of school
Can a woman rail thus?
Who knows if Donalbain be with his brother?
Come up to the truth. So have we thought it good
wise, if Don Worm, his conscience, find no
Come away; it is almost clear dawn.
The title of this most renowned duke;
All days of glory, joy and happiness.
But follow me, and Edward shall be ours.
I saw her once
Hark!
her life: I shall give thee opportunity at
Ay, my lord, this same.
And so do I too, lieutenant.
To seem despiteful and ungentle to you:
No, since.
I am glad I have found this napkin:
He does fair justice; if he give me way,
I did never see such pitiful rascals.
Enter TITANIA and BOTTOM; PEASEBLOSSOM, COBWEB, MOTH,  MUSTARDSEED, and other Fairies attending; OBERON behind unseen
Tut, never fear me: I am as vigilant as a cat to
No remedy.
Nothing: I am not taught to make any thing.
For what offence?
And thus most humbly I do take my leave.
my subject and he shall not suffer indignity.
Now I behold thy lively body so?
And many limits of the charge set down
My life and education both do learn me
Sirrah, leave us to ourselves: we must confer.
To pluck the common bosom on his side,
It hath struck.
For doing worthy vengeance on thyself,
To square for this? would it offend you, then
the spirit of putting down kings and princes,
Even to madness. 'Tis here, but yet confused:
beguile thee; if thou wert the lamb, the fox would
With letters of commission from the king.
He would have spoke to us.
So longest way shall have the longest moans.
Or friends with Caesar, or not captive to him,
Whips out his rapier, cries, 'A rat, a rat!'
Good madam, let me see your face.
Is far beyond a prince's delicates,
This bottle makes an angel.
O God, I fear thy justice will take hold
SCENE II. A field of battle near Barnet.
It shall be so.
Please it your majesty, I have done already:
I prithee, but repair to me next morning.
Marrying my sister that thy mother was,
For few men rightly temper with the stars:
A plague upon your epileptic visage!
Do draw the inward quality after them,
What is the matter, trow?
Scaling his present bearing with his past,
How does your patient, doctor?
No;
Exit
I know you by the waggling of your head.
And, for your friend's sake, will be glad of you;
With aid of soldiers to this needful war.
You do yourselves
keep below stairs?
Are my chests fill'd up with extorted gold?
Thou shalt continue two and forty hours,
A lover of thy drum, hater of love.
Enter a Nobleman
Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense
The mort o' the deer; O, that is entertainment
Such troops of citizens to speak with him,
Give me my sin again.
To cross me from the golden time I look for!
the length and breadth of a pair of indentures? The
It had been as a gap in our great feast,
But such a day to-morrow as to-day,
I told you, sir, my daughter is disposed of.
Have with you.
Come, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends;
But, hold thee, take this garland on thy brow;
Thersites!
Within the scorched veins of one new-burn'd.
Is it not strange, Canidius,
Who is to bear me like a thunderbolt
search: there I shall find Falstaff: I shall be
Enter the Ghost of King Henry VI
I am too sure of it: and it is for getting Madam
Trumpets cease
Reviving blood, and that great men shall press
Sir, sir, the first's for me; let her go by.
Without the taste of danger and reproof:
Ay, and that tongue of his that bade the Romans
To weep their intermissive miseries.
With that malignant cause wherein the honour
Please you walk in, my lords.
Lives, honours, lands and all hurry to loss.
Now Margaret's curse is fallen upon my head;
Sweats in the eye of Phoebus and all night
With man's blood paint the ground, gules, gules:
An honour in him which buys out his fault--
If they were his assistants, yea or no;
A howling monster: a drunken monster!
'Slight, I could so beat the rogue!
Thou, traitor, hast set on thy wife to this.
But come yourself with speed to us again;
A letter from the magnificent Armado.
I would expend it with all willingness:
Into a thousand parts divide on man,
thou, Hermione, contrary to the faith and allegiance
His folly, Helena, is no fault of mine.
I would not have thee linger in thy pain: So, so.
it grows, yet youth, the more it is wasted the
With too much riches it confound itself:
To London, all in post; and, as I guess,
For every object that the one doth catch
You shall be soon dispatch's with fair conditions:
Yet hold I off. Women are angels, wooing:
Ah! and did they so?
Prithee, no more; cease; thou know'st
The running of one glass.
Have not to do with him, beware of him;
Of late upon me: I must thank him only,
My legs do better understand me, sir, than I
Best in all Athens: thou'rt, indeed, the best;
But let the world rank me in register
To grace thy marriage-day, I'll beautify.
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse and DROMIO of Syracuse
Then imitate the action of the tiger;
And buss thee as thy wife. Misery's love,
Though Cambridge, Scroop and Grey, in their dear care
Than with an old one dying.
battery. He sits in his state, as a thing made for
Ambitious love hath so in me offended,
I pardon him.
To my demands. Why do you pity me?
This is one Lucianus, nephew to the king.
That if one break, the other will hold; or, if both
Not like to me, or any of my kin,
Ay, madam, you may say what sights you see;
To enter in the thoughts of desperate men!
See whether their basest metal be not moved;
And never come mischance between us twain!
I seem'd his follower, not partner, and
prithee, be gone.
Seems to prepare his way: so let him land,
Look to the queen there, ho!
Did not her kitchen-maid rail, taunt, and scorn me?
[Reads]            Hermione, queen to the worthy
No, nothing but ourselves.
That was my wife's?
Or put upon you what restraint and grievance
SCENE I. An apartment in the DUKE'S palace.
I'll present myself. Peace to the lords of Tyre!
Throw your vile guesses in the devil's teeth,
That truth should be silent I had almost forgot.
I am as ignorant in that as you
SCENE III. Before the castle.
Yet, ere we put ourselves in arms, dispatch we
What wouldst thou, boy?
And cry out for thee to close up mine eyes,
But one, the wicked'st caitiff on the ground,
That can therein tax any private party?
He;
Come, neighbour.
From the noise of our own drums.'
Next to thyself and my young rover, he's
'So so' is good, very good, very excellent good; and
And any man may sing her, if he can take her cliff;
But, Othello, speak:
The Fourth Knight passes over
Have with you, mine host.
laugh at my wife, that now laughs at thee: tell her
There's two of you; the devil make a third!
Hector trembles.
are to be laid upon the children: therefore, I
Exit
I false! Thy conscience witness: Iachimo,
Nor understood none neither, sir.
Ay, my good lord, I know the gentleman
The senate, Coriolanus, are well pleased
To mend it, or be rid on't.
are born great, some achieve greatness, and some
I'll utter what my sorrows give me leave.
are able and yet reserve an ability that they never
Invite my Lords of Salisbury and Warwick
To follow Caesar in his triumph, since
No, indeed, my lord.
father got excellent husbands, if a maid could come by them.
Promise me life, and I'll confess the truth.
Abusing better men than they can be,
My father, in kind heart and pity moved,
A heavy sentence, my most sovereign liege,
You, as your business and desire shall point you;
He is sir Robert's son, and so art thou.
Perplex'd in all. The heavens still must work.
At fools I laugh, not fear them.
Like one I loved indeed. What were thy friends?
Wherein I seem unnatural: desire not
She is so self-endeared.
What warlike noise is this?
Shall I not, then, be stifled in the vault,
The Trojan trumpets sound the like, my lord.
Ye must all see the queen, and she must thank ye,
Shall bear the business in some other fight,
Thou judgest false already: I mean, thou shalt have
I mean that her beauty is exquisite, but her favour infinite.
The absolute soldiership you have by land;
Whilst I awhile obsequiously lament
Henry the Fifth, thy ghost I invocate:
With Desdemona alone.
Fiddler, forbear; you grow too forward, sir:
Forsook his scene and enter'd in a brake
Yourself into a power tyrannical;
Come not home in twice six moons,
This apish and unmannerly approach,
Joy and all comfort in your sacred breast!
Let me entreat you.
There is a lord will hear you play to-night:
Come, answer not, but to it presently!
I would you were set, so your affection would cease.
Not according to the prayer of the people, for they
Sir, I did never win of you before.
and then judge of my merit.
Irishman, a very valiant gentleman, i' faith.
By that false woman, as this king by thee.
And let our crooked smokes climb to their nostrils
His pettish lunes, his ebbs, his flows, as if
Cousin, farewell: no further go in this
So long a-growing and so leisurely,
You hear how he importunes me;--the chain!
When what is done is like an hypocrite,
Low-crooked court'sies and base spaniel-fawning.
I am tame, sir: pronounce.
As thou didst kill our tender brother Rutland;
If so, I pray thee, breathe it in mine ear,
Lamenting some enforced chastity.
Such proclamation hath been made, my liege.
Soho, soho!
And bid her, mark you me, on Wednesday next--
black beard will turn white; a curled pate will grow
And now in peace my soul shall part to heaven,
How now! what news?
That Suffolk should demand a whole fifteenth
To help unarm our Hector: his stubborn buckles,
You do prepare to ride unto Saint Alban's,
Exit
How shall I honour thee for this success?
Have uncontemn'd gone by him, or at least
Thou art a cure fit for a king.
These things being bought and orderly bestow'd,
Pardon is still the nurse of second woe:
immaterial skein of sleave-silk, thou green sarcenet
husband's purse: he hath a legion of angels.
Than wife is to the husband? If this law
Broke be my sword, my arms torn and defaced,
Here in the court, of all he dies possess'd,
and desire Gratiano to come anon to my lodging.
By me invested, he compeers the best.
Had nobles richer and more loyal subjects,
Stand where the torch may not discover us.
for thee at the North-gate.
The bound of honour, or in act or will
Lo, now my glory smear'd in dust and blood!
Exit
To the noble heart. What's gone and what's past help
Who is there?
Marina was she call'd; and at her birth,
Our ranks are broke, and ruin follows us:
through and through; my sword hacked like a
That's verily. 'Tis best we stand upon our guard,
My master, not myself, lacks recompense.
Even in a minute: so full of shapes is fancy
I give heaven thanks I was not like to thee!
To whom am I beholding for these limbs?
If you come slack of former services,
Defect of manners, want of government,
from him, it shows to man the tailors of the earth;
Thy natural magic and dire property,
crept into any alderman's thumb-ring: a plague of
Some enigma, some riddle: come, thy l'envoy; begin.
Proceed in justice, which shall have due course,
I hate: I had as lief be a Brownist as a
Looking the way her harmless young one went,
How, with his banners and his well-paid ranks,
For there's the house: that chain will I bestow--
O most divine Kate!
Deposed his nephew Richard, Edward's son,
velvet on's face: whether there be a scar under't
It is but foolery; but it is such a kind of
But, sure, the bravery of his grief did put me
'If that you will France win,
Helena, adieu:
Make me but like my thoughts, and I shall prove
Frosty, but kindly: let me go with you;
Hark! I am call'd; my little spirit, see,
Unmuffles CLAUDIO
Never came trouble to my house in the likeness of
Thou speak'st like a physician, Helicanus,
You called me yesterday mountain-squire; but I will
That what they do delay, they not deny.
de son mauvais, corruptible, gros, et impudique, et
With some diffused song: upon their sight,
My lips are no common, though several they be.
But with a grain a day, I would not buy
My lord?
Is there not a double excellency in this?
Why, there's a wench! Come on, and kiss me, Kate.
With comforting repose, and not for us
Men of his way should be most liberal;
Clap round fines for neglect: ye are lazy knaves;
Is it this, sir?
According as your ladyship desired,
What hast thou been?
He is slain.
Well urged, my Lord of Warwick: or sweet prince,
Enter KENT
Why, so: being gone,
to an hundred mischiefs, and makes them leave me
This house, these servants and this same myself
Ay, so the turn were served.
'Tis ten to one it maim'd you two outright.
Not wake him in his slumber. A beggar's book
What stay had I but Edward? and he's gone.
[Advancing]  Come, sir, you blush; as his your case is such;
Your napkin is too little:
Nay, we must use expostulation kindly,
And I believe twill never stand upright
and drown himself, it is, will he, nill he, he
devil himself will not eat a woman: I know that a
Ay.
You come to fright us.
And plodded like a man for working-days,
England ne'er lost a king of so much worth.
Now stay your strife: what shall be is dispatch'd.
Exit BARDOLPH
I hate the murderer, love him murdered.
Met I my father with his bleeding rings,
Hear me one word.
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  Medice, teipsum--
Anon, anon! I pray you, remember the porter.
Can task the free breath of a sacred king?
Enter MONTANO, GRATIANO, IAGO, and others
I am known to be a humorous patrician, and one that
Read on this book;
I am settled, and bend up
I will bethink me: come again tomorrow.
Of angry eyes, not comforted to live,
hurt not. My lord, for your many courtesies I thank
Then it is thus: the passions of the mind,
If their singing answer your saying, by my faith,
Alas, that love, whose view is muffled still,
It is the Lord AEneas.
Bless me from marrying a usurer!
If it were done when 'tis done, then 'twere well
The breath of garlic-eaters!
Having no more but thought of what thou wert,
I charge thee, Satan, housed within this man,
I'll not bereave you of your servant.
Exit ULYSSES
To SILVIUS
Tidings, as swiftly as the posts could run,
Nor men nor money hath he to make war.
honour be witness, that no want of resolution in me.
Adoption strives with nature and choice breeds
Enter three or four Servitors
Why, uncle, what's the matter?
Sir, I must have that diamond from you.
The George, profaned, hath lost his holy honour;
The law allows it, and the court awards it.
I'll have a starling shall be taught to speak
To meet displeasure farther from the doors,
Have been Tom's food for seven long year.
With the hell-hated lie o'erwhelm thy heart;
O piteous spectacle!
Of this discourse we more will hear anon.
Before I were forced out!
Sir Toby, I must be round with you. My lady bade me
Why would you be so fond to overcome
They think my little stomach to the war
The Christian prince, King Henry, were he here.
No doubt, shall then and till then govern well.
Mark you this, Bassanio,
The interim having weigh'd it, let us speak
I had in charge at my depart for France,
Fortune and I are friends: I do enjoy
That you resolved to effect.
kinsman, live unbruised and love my cousin.
Whose bowels suddenly burst out: the king
As he from heaven merits it, with you
And that I'll spend for him.
Alack, for lesser knowledge! how accursed
our sheep: and would you have us kiss tar? The
What most he should dislike seems pleasant to him;
His smiles,
Whose sovereignty so oft thou hast preferr'd
Had never like executor. I forget:
Come, wilt thou see me ride?
virtues it was, but he was certainly whipped out of the court.
My arm shall give thee help to bear thee hence;
They that of late were daring with their scoffs
As shall become your highness; where you may
What's the news? what's the news?
Forgive me, cousin! Ah, dear Juliet,
By Jupiter! forgot.
And Antony, were nature's piece 'gainst fancy,
Before our army. Thy Pacorus, Orodes,
Woe above woe! grief more than common grief!
And wedded be thou to the hags of hell,
Be your tears wet? yes, 'faith. I pray, weep not:
swine-keeping, from eating draff and husks. A mad
Richard, that robb'd the lion of his heart
Of his return: he answer'd, 'Do not so;
Or hollowly put on.
You must eat men. Yet thanks I must you con
For why my bowels cannot hide her woes,
good parts aside I have no other charms.
return again to Venice.
So, trouble me no more, but get you gone.
He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
There's not a hollow cave or lurking-place,
Why hopest thou so? 'tis better hope he is;
away your child on a fool, and a physician? Look on
Pray you, a word.
Whoever gave that counsel, to give forth
Here where his daughter dwells; and on this coast
request, cousin, in any reason.
dislike; so is the will of a living daughter curbed
Good people enter and lay hold on him.
O sir, I shall be hated to report it!
Exit
indeed, know not their fathers and therefore have no names.
Pray you, lead on. At every house I'll call;
Lady, you have. Pray you, peruse that letter.
No.
There is expectance here from both the sides,
Beauty doth varnish age, as if new-born,
And shortly comes to harvest.
Exeunt all but HAMLET and HORATIO
Tell you the duke, shall prosper: bid him strive
But kill him rather. I'll after that same villain,
Tuesday, a morris for May-day, as the nail to his
Up to a whore; who now are levying
Whose rocky shore beats back the envious siege
Very well.
This is the most despiteful gentle greeting,
Exit ANNE PAGE
Do, good my lord, your citizens entreat you.
How now! what means death in this rude assault?
To go in person with me to my house.
She had all the royal makings of a queen;
Received the golden earnest of our death;
Do feel the treason sharply, yet the traitor
As who should say, if I should sleep or eat,
But, in mine emulous honour, let him die,
The Lady Constance speaks not from her faith,
And am well studied for a liberal thanks
A soldier to thy purpose.
the time of the day.
As gentle and as jocund as to jest
Dear Princess, were not his requests so far
And give me mine again.
And find out murderers in their guilty caves:
Commend thy grievance to my holy prayers,
I'll over then to England with this news,
No, my lord.
An her hair were not somewhat darker than Helen's--
Forty let it be:
[Reads]
Flinty mankind; whose eyes do never give
I have done, i' faith.
With drink, sir?
But as a discontented friend, grief-shot
A better life. 'Tis paltry to be Caesar;
The very train of her worst wearing gown
And you whose places are the nearest, know
He mock'd us when he begg'd our voices.
And I with him.
SCENE III. The Council-Chamber.
Under the which he shall not choose but fall:
But what at full I know, thou know'st no part,
and thou art to post after with oars. What's the
The visitor will not give him o'er so.
Enter a Messenger
Or by what means got'st thou to be released?
Not I, my lord, by heaven.
Looking at the jewel
I'll show you those in troubles reign,
I'll stay to know at your abandon'd cave.
Is not that he t hat lies upon the ground?
My picked man of countries: 'My dear sir,'
No grief did ever come so near thy heart
And beat the messenger who bids beware
Lest it be said 'Speak, sirrah, when you should;
That thou expect'st not nor I look'd not for.
jewels, I will give over my suit and repent my
Weed wide enough to wrap a fairy in:
The gods forbid!
set on thy horns. O powerful love! that, in some
a man; and what a thing should I have been when I
You shall yourself read in the bitter letter
hold up his head, as it were, and strut in his gait?
O, that this too too solid flesh would melt
Most shallow man! thou worms-meat, in respect of a
Knavery's plain face is never seen tin used.
Ay, but I know--
It may be,
What, are you hurt, lieutenant?
He was too hard for him directly, to say the troth
Enter CAPULET, PARIS, and Servant
Five hundred poor I have in yearly pay,
And I choose Clarence only for protector.
An absolute trust.
In yours they will, in you all hopes are lost.
No, not to-night.
Villanous whore!
Have stoop'd my neck under your injuries,
And in the stocks avouch it.
Or, if you show your face, you must not speak.
How often he had met you, sword to sword;
Might you not know she would do as she has done,
Pause awhile,
Take it, brave York. Now, soldiers, march away:
Some men are much to blame.
just and his quarrel honourable.
Mistress, both man and master is possess'd;
I say, this house is as dark as ignorance, though
SCENE IV. Rome. A public place.
please you: and I charge you, O men, for the love
The very mould and frame of hand, nail, finger:
That thou hast wronged in the time o'erpast;
You cannot revel into dukedoms there.
Ah, word ill urged to one that is so ill!
Sebastian are you?
That touches Caesar nearer: read it, great Caesar.
Thou teachest me, O valiant Eros, what
I stand aloof; and will no reconcilement,
No way excuse his soils, when we do bear
Sir,--
No doubt, my liege, if each man do his best.
Look how thou stirrest now! come away, or I'll
Out, dunghill! darest thou brave a nobleman?
Marry, sir, here's my drift;
Hath no self-love, nor he that loves himself
Lest that your goods too soon be confiscate.
And we, poor mates, stand on the dying deck,
rehearse, though credit be asleep and not an ear
And better 'twere you troubled him than France.
An if my face were but as fair as yours,
Lucilius' Servant	Not yet.
The manage of my state; as at that time
He has kill'd me, mother:
ANTIPHOLUS
Sweet Portia, welcome.
I was taken with none, sir: I was taken with a damsel.
I fear my Thisby's promise is forgot!
In being so blest! There may be in the cup
No seconds? all myself?
Old Siward, with ten thousand warlike men,
A paltry, insolent fellow!
Your oath I will not trust; but go with speed
against six French swords, their assigns, and three
husband had him of. What do you call your knight's
the university.
wench, as touching the hit it.
I love thee.
The pretty wretch left crying and said 'Ay.'
And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
ANTIPHOLUS
The way that they did, and to grin like lions
In him that should compare. I do not think
Nay, then she must needs come.
In humours like the people of this world,
Doubt not
A halter'd neck which does the hangman thank
And foams at mouth, and he is arm'd and at it,
To entrap the wisest. Therefore, thou gaudy gold,
Than man could give him, he died fearing God.
Salutes ye all; this night he dedicates
Whose daggers have stabb'd Caesar; I do fear it.
Where's Peaseblossom?
Told me, the king, provoked by the queen,
Me to proclaim the truth; and I am come,
If you can look into the seeds of time,
Who sets me else? by heaven, I'll throw at all:
into seeming knowledge, when we should submit
More free from peril than the envious court?
Know, Rome, that all alone Marcius did fight
And with what zeal! for, now he has crack'd the league
Relate your wrongs; in what? by whom? be brief.
They only now come but to feast thine eyes.
O heresy in fair, fit for these days!
Tell me, can you deliver an oration to the emperor
The need we have to use you did provoke
His marks of merit, wounds received for's country.
Pleading for a lover's fee.
More fierce and more inexorable far
Come, high or low;
A cry within
enemies; go to, then, I ask but this: can he that
I'll keep them, by this hand.
Think, how thou stab'dst me in my prime of youth
First with the best of note: Cymbeline loved me,
I am sure, is sent for.
should have play for lack of work. Would, for the
Now old desire doth in his death-bed lie,
And shall she carry this unto her grave?
According to the fashion and the time.
O day! O day! O day! O hateful day!
comes this night to Messina.
element shows to him as it doth to me; all his
Let not light see my black and deep desires:
for mercy and still run and roared, as ever I heard
Further in the proceeding.
Forswear Bianca and her love for ever.
To the under generation, you shall find
He bade me, from him, call thee thane of Cawdor:
Happy be you!
Have lost their quality, and that this day
Be there in person?
O, good my lord!
displeasure of the king, who had even tuned his
The setting sun, and music at the close,
Who cover faults, at last shame them derides.
That man should be at woman's command, and yet no
[Reads]  'An if we miss to meet him handsomely--
If good King Pericles be.
I would assay, proud queen, to make thee blush.
I am thoroughly weary.
I prithee, vent thy folly somewhere else: Thou
him, good heart.
To our solemnity: I trust we shall,
relief nor my voice for thy preferment.
the spirit of love in her, that he will appear in
Enter AEMILIUS
And tell me who is victor, York or Warwick?
How much in duty I am bound to both.
But when goes this forward?
The Tower, the Tower.
Launcelot,' or 'good Gobbo,' or good Launcelot
Whom we have left protectors of the king,
When you have vow'd, you must not speak with men
into stitches, follow me. Yond gull Malvolio is
There Diomed doth feast with him to-night;
That smooth-faced gentleman, tickling Commodity,
For so they phrase 'em--by their heralds challenged
From my lord Biron, a good master of mine,
friends for my wife's sake.
My amen to't!
And hedges his own way. But in this point
Please it this matron and this gentle maid
That you withdraw you and abate your strength;
Till I again see mine.
Not like a guest; so you shall pay your fees
Not willing any longer conference,
Villain, thou didst deny the gold's receipt,
As I dare take a serpent by the tongue:
Ho, Guildenstern! bring in my lord.
When clouds appear, wise men put on their cloaks;
Which serve not for his vantage, be shakes off;
So often shall the knot of us be call'd
Makes his approaches to the port of Rome:
One on 's father's moods.
According to the statute of the town,
DON
And therefore, finding barren practisers,
Why, does he talk of him?
Farewell, gentle cousin.
thou dispossess the soul of thy grandam. Fare thee well.
For private stomaching.
Enter DON JOHN and BORACHIO
Whose loss hath pierced him deep and scarr'd his heart;
How you can frown than spend a fawn upon 'em,
Exeunt in manner as they entered
He last asked the question. Poor rogues, and
Capering to eye her: on a trice, so please you,
As of her tongue she oft bestows on me,
lest my extent to the players, which, I tell you,
To spy an I can hear my Thisby's face. Thisby!
When I was young, as yet I am not old,
Bull Jove, sir, had an amiable low;
It is reported, mighty sovereign,
But you are more intemperate in your blood
Cannot attain it, why, then,--hark you hither!
The chronicles of my doing, let me say
How now, Lavinia! Marcus, what means this?
He that brings this love to thee
Clamour'd the livelong night: some say, the earth
That gave him out incurable,--
That they have let the dangerous enemy
I cannot tell; but this I am assured,
Sir, pardon; 'tis for Agamemnon's ears.
Where hope is coldest and despair most fits.
And the owner of it blest
If not denounced against us, why should not we
That Somerset be sent as regent thither:
Must give us pause: there's the respect
And to proclaim it civilly, were like
The people's magistrates.
But did you not request to have it cut?
I am sorry, madam; for the news I bring
Seeing this goodly vessel ride before us,
I am for thee straight: take thou the
To know, when two authorities are up,
Pretty soul! she durst not lie
Ah, sirrah, this unlook'd-for sport comes well.
Fixing our eyes on whom our care was fix'd,
To change the cod's head for the salmon's tail;
For speaking false in that: thou art, alone,
Your lives shall pay the forfeit of the peace.
their worships to think it was his infirmity. Three
On silly women or poor passengers.
have I heard on o' the land, who never leave gaping
Heaven and our Lady gracious hath it pleased
Heavens bless my lord from fell Aufidius!
all Greece.
thoughts beget hot deeds, and hot deeds is love.
When thou liest howling.
But I am sure the younger of our nature,
We'll lay before this town our royal bones,
But to her love concerneth us to add
her to try with main-course.
And give him chastisement for this abuse.
No place will please me so, no mean of death,
So much complexion? Look ye, how they change!
O, look! methinks I see my cousin's ghost
myself: they have pitched a toil; I am toiling in
Have lost, or do not learn for want of time,
please you, Sir Nathaniel?
Exeunt CORIOLANUS, COMINIUS, MENENIUS, Senators, and Patricians
Speak that which is not.
By going to Achilles:
That truth should be suspected. Speak, is't so?
Bestow'd his lips on that unworthy place,
Remove these thoughts from you: the which before
A breach that craves a quick expedient stop!
The noble Percy slain, and all his men
business as I shall find means and acquaint you withal.
Exeunt
And thou shalt find that I exceed my sex.
Amen.
You made it known to us.
ACT IV
Thou hast not loved:
say 'Welcome!'
God grant him health! Did you confer with him?
Welcome, Lord Somerset. What news from France?
otherwise, for your ill opinion and the assault you
Ere stay behind this business.
With course disturb'd even thy confining shores,
And never dare misfortune cross her foot,
The offences we have made you do we'll answer,
Fie, cousin Percy! how you cross my father!
Sirs, I will practise on this drunken man.
at curfew, and walks till the first cock; he gives
So common-hackney'd in the eyes of men,
We would as willingly give cure as know.
What touches us ourself shall be last served.
What letters hast thou there?--I can but thank you.
'Tis most certain.
Now, sir! what make you here?
By your espials were discovered
And more inconstant than the wind, who wooes
Be pitiful to my condemned sons,
But whether they be ta'en or slain we hear not.
BISHOP
Exceeding wise, fair-spoken, and persuading:
the babe,--
knows no end of them. Well, that is the dowry of
If not, why then, this parting was well made.
A sword unbated, and in a pass of practise
Now, by the burning tapers of the sky,
Say you? nay, pray you, mark.
That if again this apparition come,
He stamps with his foot and the soldiers show themselves
Macduff is fled to England.
Enter SILVIA
Thy wit is as quick as the greyhound's mouth; it catches.
This was well done, my bird.
he married but his occasion here.
How many inches doth fill up one mile.
Enter GLOUCESTER
Sir John Falstaff!
Pray you, let's have no words of this; but when they
Some Juliet, and some Paris; and all run,
Then cheer thy spirit : for know, thou emperor,
For every minute is expectancy
Through lovers' brains, and then they dream of love;
What may you be? are you of good or evil?
What is it
She is deliver'd, lords; she is deliver'd.
Yes.
My revenge properly, my remission lies
to-morrow, I'll give him his payment: if ever he go
This is the rascal; this is he I spoke of.
nothing undone that may fully discover him their
That, out of mere ambition, you have caused
Shall give thee opportunity.' O damn'd paper!
ACT II
A holy prophetess new risen up,
That this will prove a war; and you shall hear
Which elder days shall ripen and confirm
For I do love her most unfeignedly.
And draw you into madness? think of it:
at sea, a pirate of very warlike appointment gave us
And since, methinks, I would not grow so fast,
you bear to men, to like as much of this play as
Whilst some with cunning gild their copper crowns,
How? what?
Appear there for a man. Speak not against it:
The private wound is deepest: O time most accurst,
O Tybalt, Tybalt, the best friend I had!
You speak o' the people,
And throw it thence into the raging sea!
So full of ugly sights, of ghastly dreams,
Though I could 'scape shot-free at London, I fear
It shall be so, it shall be so; let him away:
I tax not you, you elements, with unkindness;
Worthily spoken, Mecaenas.
A hundred then.
I put myself to thy direction, and
Do I put up that womanly defence,
Stand you both forth now: stroke your chins, and
Must these have voices, that can yield them now
of this wood, I have enough to serve mine own turn.
you writ to Diana in behalf of the Count Rousillon?
Nor is he dead, for aught that I can tell.
say, plucked down in the suburbs; and now she
To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,--
I have in quick determination
Profaners of this neighbour-stained steel,--
Can it not do and undo? I will make
In underprizing it, so far this shadow
Very true;
Their loud applause and Aves vehement;
Shall pass his quarter, or offend the stream
I'll seek him deeper than e'er plummet sounded
Send for your daughter by your servant here:
Here sits a king more woful than you are.
new-fangled than an ape, more giddy in my desires
Thou blow'st for Hector.
Up to the ears in blood. I am on fire
Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;
it hath the excuse of youth and heat of blood,
since Deucalion, though peradventure some of the
It is a purposed thing, and grows by plot,
he wants money.
O, what a time have you chose out, brave Caius,
Who having, by their own importunate suit,
the madman.
There's difference in no persons.
Officious, and not valiant, you have shamed me
So is the bargain.
Whom I will marry straight to Clarence' daughter:
Why, then from Ireland come I with my strength
seventh cause.
Not yours, in good sooth! Heart! you swear like a
dead, there needs none to be blamed. Marry, if he
How if it come to thee again?
Their battering cannon charged to the mouths,
Beats TRINCULO
Having alike your cause? Of this my letters
Ready.
And call them pillars that will stand to us;
hunt this weather? They have scared away two of my
For, being not propp'd by ancestry, whose grace
Aloof from the entire point. Will you have her?
That I am to pronounce Augustus Caesar--
Then this breaking of his has been but a try for his friends.
Aroused vengeance sets him new a-work;
any of your words? I have seen you gleeking and
Sovereign, here lies the County Paris slain;
Of mighty opposites.
'Break up the senate till another time,
What is it, but to make thy sepulchre
her favours?
Tell me, Panthino, what sad talk was that
Send word to you he would be there to-morrow.
There's nothing can be minister'd to nature
Fairly spoke.
Give us some music; and, good cousin, sing.
That, with the fusty plebeians, hate thine honours,
Flavius.
should be like the case!
knew the service, and that instructed him to mercy.
rather--saving reverence of the word--for 'tis said
And with that painted hope braves your mightiness:
Lapis.
My visor is Philemon's roof; within the house is Jove.
O noble sir,
Till I have set a glory to this hand,
They take it already upon their salvation, that
and old Northumberland, and that sprightly Scot of
One calls within 'Juliet.'
that sighs for thee. Remember who commended thy
I do, my lord, and mean accordingly.
I will resolve your grace immediately.
To re-salute his country with his tears,
As wild geese that the creeping fowler eye,
A senseless villain! Good Hortensio,
Exit
That it will please you
Has these poor men in question. Never saw I
Of one that loved not wisely but too well;
As one near death to those that wish him live:
And now loud-howling wolves arouse the jades
Your honour has through Ephesus pour'd forth
No way but gentleness; gently, gently: the fiend is
O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
services, that you would think that I had a hundred
Mumbling of wicked charms, conjuring the moon
Thine own life's means! Then 'tis most like
Proud Cleopatra, when she met her Roman,
I know you can do very little alone; for your helps
Or all will fall in broil.
Down, down I come; like glistering Phaethon,
If you will then see the fruits of the sport, mark
And I denied to enter in my house?
Every man here's so. What would he have borrowed of
Reignier, is't thou that thinkest to beguile me?
him, if there be any law in Illyria: though I
he says is here now in the house by your consent, to
stammer, that thou mightst pour this concealed man
That Ferdinand is drown'd?
Re-enter KING LEAR
In haste whereof, most heartily I pray
Your patience and your virtue well deserves it:
you, four and twenty pound.
What, you notorious villain, didst thou never see
Of Mantua, sir? marry, God forbid!
That being pass'd for consul with full voice,
Ay, to eleven; and brought them down again. But
Last, and as much containing as all these,
Our puissance into the hand of God,
The blind to bear him speak: matrons flung gloves,
Each takes his fellow for an officer.
That monthly changes in her circled orb,
Exeunt all but DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
But more devout than this in our respects
There tell the king he may inquire us out.
Not that Adam that kept the Paradise but that Adam
Showing the bracelet
The queen is comfortless, and we forgetful
For, by the way, I'll sort occasion,
I'll tell thee on the instant thou art then
example, that so terrible shows in the wreck of
'Tis so, I am an ass; else it could never be
carving the fashion of a new doublet. He was wont to
O my good lord, that comfort comes too late;
Antipholus, thou camest from Corinth first?
We are glad the Dauphin is so pleasant with us;
singleness.
Her heart inform her tongue,--the swan's
Her father keeps from all access of suitors,
Envy your great deservings and good name,
Unto the camp, and profits will accrue.
The gods grant them true!
O, let them keep it till thy sins be ripe,
And yet of moment to, for it concerns
I see, sir, you are eaten up with passion:
But must not break my back to heal his finger;
Have any way your good deserts forgot,
Lavinia is thine elder brother's hope.
ACT II
Come, come, you wasp; i' faith, you are too angry.
Thy wife and children's blood. For myself, son,
I do beseech thee--
The vasty fields of France? or may we cram
Into this breathing world, scarce half made up,
Never to hope again.
Necessity's sharp pinch! Return with her?
Lords, I will meet him at Saint Edmundsbury:
Never.
See you well guerdon'd for these good deserts.
Thou art a villain to impeach me thus:
was full of jests, and gipes, and knaveries, and
Might stop a hole to keep the wind away:
Ay, sir, what of him?
filth as thou art. Thou hast most traitorously
Let me lodge Lichas on the horns o' the moon;
Came I to take her from her kindred's vault;
These from our king unto your majesty:
Thou quiet soul, sleep thou a quiet sleep
To his conveyance I assign my wife,
But even this night, whose black contagious breath
Which are the movers of a languishing death;
christenings? do you look for ale and cakes here,
Come, you are so full of cony-catching!
the angry law; do no stain to your own gracious
succession for it perpetually.
Prithee, peace.
good masters.
SCENE II. Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace.
no less esteemed.
I left out one thing which the queen confess'd.
Fie, how my bones ache! what a jaunt have I had!
Keep the peace, I say.
Exeunt
As good to wink, sweet love, as look on night.
Exit
But, for all this, my honest-natured friends,
O, these encounterers, so glib of tongue,
To keep them back that come to succor you:
If we are mark'd to die, we are enow
A pebble.
They are not such as you.
Stand by me, Lucius; do not fear thine aunt.
This brave shall oft make thee to hide thy head.
will hack; and so thou shouldst not alter the
Stay, officer: he shall not go to prison.
Yea, at all points; and longs to enter in.
Have you got leave to go to shrift to-day?
stock, and freshly grow; then shall Posthumus end
For I am bold to counsel you in this.
My gracious lord, entreat him, speak him fair.
I have, when you have heard what I can say:
Enter Host, SHALLOW, SLENDER, and PAGE
Why, that they have; and bid them so be gone.
No, I warrant you, he will not hear of godliness.
He falls to such perusal of my face
Your tender kinsman and to choke his days
Kisses her
Do not believe it.
Why, what's the matter?
But from the inward motion to deliver
As make your bouts more violent to that end--
And like thy brother, to enjoy thy land,
Dear my lord, if you, in your own proof,
Sir, my good friend; I'll change that name with you:
Prove true, imagination, O, prove true,
Well, say I am; why should proud summer boast
You gave me none: you wrong me much to say so.
ANTIPHOLUS
And so, farewell.
I will not stir, nor wince, nor speak a word,
ACT II
numbers. Away I go. They say there is divinity in
on my back forty eight.
Swears he will shoot no more but play with sparrows
More in their officer than person: Sossius,
Find in myself no pity to myself?
stranger sense. Her matter was, she loved your son:
O, you are a flattering boy: now I see you'll be a courtier.
And kept his credit with his purse,
Should you do so, my lord,
Out, some light horsemen, and peruse their wings.
If thou use to beat me, I will begin at thy heel, and
And, for the good report I hear of you
Well didst thou, Richard, to suppress thy voice;
[Aside]  I'll write to my lord she's dead. O Imogen,
That gold must round engirt these brows of mine,
Did not you tell me I should know the man
The day is hot, the Capulets abroad,
In faith, I do not: come hither once again.
Let's have some merry ones.
For my poor brother's head.
I will not sup to-night.
host, thine Ephesian, calls.
Nor read the secrets in't.
Makes wing to the rooky wood:
And kiss'd it, madam.
Which he intends to Lear and to Cordelia,
Ah, what sharp stings are in her mildest words!
He said he had wounds, which he could show
That can we not; but he that proves the king,
Then give me leave to go.
Three or four miles about, else had I, sir,
But, for the seventh cause; how did you find the
If they demand: beware of being captives,
--odours savours sweet:
Re-enter MALVOLIO
He is forsworn, if e'er those eyes of yours
Of what quality was your love, then?
Exempted be from me the arrogance
Unfold the evil which is here wrapt up
In making question of my uttermost
I should know that voice: it should be--but he is
I have great comfort from this fellow: methinks he
And I thus humble ever.
And binds the wretch, and beats it when it strays,
How I may bear me here: my prime request,
The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee,
Come, Hector, come, go back:
Earth gapes, hell burns, fiends roar, saints pray.
Exeunt BIANCA, KATHARINA, and Widow
Or if of grief, being altogether had,
In emerald tufts, flowers purple, blue and white;
Exeunt DON PEDRO, DON JOHN, and CLAUDIO
Look like the time; bear welcome in your eye,
the fury of his heart, when the foul fiend rages,
From whence he intercepted did return
Exeunt
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  He is the bluntest wooer in
Exit THURIO
And three times as much more, and yet nothing at
To be a queen, and crown'd with infamy!
For nothing canst thou to damnation add
What can be avoided
This sword of mine shall give them instant way,
God keep me so! Our heralds go with him:
That you unlace your reputation thus
And for night-tapers crop their waxen thighs
The deck, with glove, or hat, or handkerchief,
Yet have I ventured to come seek you out,
Miranda.--O my father,
With such a kind of love as might become
Both you of my inclining, and the rest:
her that's foul and foolish?
telling true, but so.
And set thy diadem upon my head;
And never yet did insurrection want
Exit an Attendant
We have been up and down to seek him.
To have my love to bed and to arise;
will not tell myself; and yet 'tis a milkmaid; yet
Every third thought shall be my grave.
Would move a monster.
Kent banish'd thus! and France in choler parted!
Didst hear her speak? is she shrill-tongued or low?
I cannot give thee less, to be call'd grateful:
Took it in rage, though calm'd have given't again:
Of every syllable that here was spoke.
So long that nineteen zodiacs have gone round
And by the royalties of both your bloods,
Or else he must not only die the death,
That he will give them make I as little question
All this is comfort; wherefore weep I then?
Which are to France the spies and speculations
A drum, a drum!
Such creatures as men doubt; but do not stain
Exeunt
With his own sword,
Fair maid, send forth thine eye: this youthful parcel
I warrant your honour.
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, AGRIPPA, and MECAENAS, with his Army; OCTAVIUS CAESAR reading a letter
A dower, my lords! disgrace not so your king,
would not: drunk many times a day, if not many days
And celebrate our drink?
Whose hearts are absent too.
Why, love, I say! madam! sweet-heart! why, bride!
To see these Grecian lords!--why, even already
ANTIPHOLUS
Here's eight that must take hands
And quicken his embraced heaviness
To think that you have aught but Talbot's shadow
Great Agamemnon, Nestor shall apply
Leaving the fight in height, flies after her:
That will undo her: to confirm this too,
Go thou, and like an executioner,
Wherefore, gentle maiden,
Lizard's leg and owlet's wing,
The bounty and the benison of heaven
'Tis but surmised whiles thou art standing by,
are hungry: if there be any of him left, I'll bury
I will not have it so: lie down, good sirs;
[Aside]  Now, by the gods, I do applaud his courage.
If heaven be pleased that you must use me ill,
Dark as your fortune is, and but disguise
Which but attends thy naming.
yours: for my part, I do not lie in't, and yet it is mine.
SCENE II. The forest.
Shall rue the hour that ever thou wast born.
That made the air unwholesome, when you cast
Distinguish form: so your sweet majesty,
To CARDINAL CAMPEIUS
And gather by him, as he is behaved,
Destroy our friends and after weep their dust
What say'st thou, my dear nurse?
Money's a medler.
Which presently they read: on whose contents,
He would not then have touch'd them for his life!
in our more rawer breath?
Without a sudden calm, will overset
Here will I sit before the walls of Rouen
Revenge the jeering and disdain'd contempt
Come, my sweet wife, my dearest mother, and
Exit Romeo
I think he would not wish himself any where but
How chance Moonshine is gone before Thisbe comes
How! turn thy back and run?
During their use, and slay us after.
were to make a monster of the multitude: of the
The clergy in example.
To look into the bottom of my place:
I know not what 'twas but distraction.
I never was nor never will be false.
To some man else, as this dead man doth me.
With the green sickness.
To the platform, masters; come, let's set the watch.
These many, then, shall die; their names are prick'd.
'Tis so, be sure of it.
ANTIPHOLUS
Peace! Here comes my sister, reading: stand aside.
Dictynna, goodman Dull; Dictynna, goodman Dull.
With more than foreign heart. We every day
That he is promised to be wived
He is justly served;
mistress and be happy rivals in Bianco's love, to
Next, if I be appointed for the place,
Some touch of your late business: affairs, that walk,
Domestic fury and fierce civil strife
Tybalt, liest thou there in thy bloody sheet?
Thou swear'st thy gods in vain.
With many hundreds treading on his heels;
O unhappy youth!
Aside
Doth make against me of this direful murder;
Speak sweetly, man, although thy looks be sour.
Which I will do with confirm'd countenance.
For, having such a blessing in his lady,
And tell the legions 'I can never win
in the pie, for then the man's date's out.
Weep thou for me in France, I for thee here;
But stand against us like an enemy.
here? a man or a fish? dead or alive? A fish:
The fugitive Parthians follow; spur through Media,
As asses are.
the challenge, subscribed for Cupid, and challenged
His pardon for return.
And as the air blows it to me again,
Lieth down; the Judges,  and c., pass by him, and Exeunt
you, hostess: he is very sick, and would to bed.
That is, a woman; if you be more, you're none;
Her honour is an essence that's not seen;
calling? Look to the guests within.
Whose face between her forks presages snow;
committed at the bridge.
What, ho! my lord!
Where one part does disdain with cause, the other
And on the justice of my flying hence,
Harry to Harry shall, hot horse to horse,
I cannot tell what you and other men
Well, well, well,--
ANTIPHOLUS
See here these movers that do prize their hours
A very scurvy fellow.
To stand against the deep dread-bolted thunder?
With hey, ho,  and c.
In the same figure, like the king that's dead.
Take comfort: he no more shall see my face;
At thy request, monster, I will do reason, any
And here's a pot of good double beer, neighbour:
A parley sounded
into London under the form of a soldier. And such
never an eye in thy head? canst not hear? An
I was adored once too.
So, so; now sit: and look you eat no more
Exit Worcester
Or brought a faggot to bright-burning Troy?
You shall not be my judge: for it is you
They are dissolved: hang 'em!
That Alexander Iden, an esquire of Kent,
Run, run, Orlando; carve on every tree
Vines and clustering bunches growing,
Therefore, to arms! And, father, do but think
Pewter and brass and all things that belong
Yet none of you would once plead for his life.
O world, thy slippery turns! Friends now fast sworn,
Flowing and swelling o'er with arts and exercise:
Better consider what you have to do
Much less in blood than virtue, yet a princess
To seal our happiness with their consents!
The men of Tyrus on the head
Against my lord the Duke of Somerset.
Upon the hatches: thence we looked toward England,
And let it be mine honour, good my lord,
thankful to thee shall be my study, and my profit
So is running away, when fear proposes the safety;
The lady stirs.
SCENE VII. A camp, at a small distance from Rome.
The trust I have is in mine innocence,
Ah, York, no man alive so fain as I!
This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
Were dolphin-like; they show'd his back above
And Duke of Buckingham; now, poor Edward Bohun:
I prithee now, to bed.
No night is now with hymn or carol blest:
Exit
Caesar, 'tis his schoolmaster:
therefore the sadness is without limit.
Why, that is spoken like a toward prince.
Can do no more.
Of the young prince, whose honourable thoughts,
And, with thy shame, thy father's sorrow die!
The lamb.
courtesy of nations allows you my better, in that
To shallow  and c.
And notwithstanding all her sudden quips,
More whore, more mischief first; I have given you earnest.
O, no; he goes into Mauritania and takes away with
It shall make honour for you.
Than feed it with such over-roasted flesh.
No, I'll nor sell nor give him: lend you him I will
Write up his title with usurping blood.
None that I know will be, much that I fear may chance.
Being on shore, honouring of Neptune's triumphs,
Be so perfidious!--he whom next thyself
The ploughman lost his sweat, and the green corn
Where is the post that came from Montague?
And with such sober and unnoted passion
Thick and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers,
avouch the justice of your dealing?
RICHARD
There's a bargain made.
For every word you speak in his behalf
will make them acquainted with your purpose, and I
read thus: therefore perpend, my princess, and give ear.
It shall be speeded well.
To send their smiles before them to Achilles;
I saw them speak together.
Proceed no straiter 'gainst our uncle Gloucester
I am inform'd that he comes towards London,
As rank as any flax-wench that puts to
The good precedence; fie upon 'But yet'!
Pare thy nails, dad;
ACT III
To pardon him that hath from nature stolen
[Within]  Who is that at the door that keeps all
Doing is activity; and he will still be doing.
Is this the daughter of a king?
Hortensio, hark:
By magot-pies and choughs and rooks brought forth
Poor rogue hereditary. Hence, be gone!
And there an end. But what say you to Thursday?
To BANQUO
bots, swayed in the back and shoulder-shotten;
Is outward sorrow; though I think the king
Some say he's mad; others that lesser hate him
With that dear blood which it hath fostered;
Smarting in lingering pickle.
That, as my hand has open'd bounty to you,
Comfort, my liege; why looks your grace so pale?
Beyond the trick of others. This Polydore,
'Sblood, my lord, they are false: nay, I'll tickle
Our enemy is banish'd! he is gone! Hoo! hoo!
Besides this treasure for a fee,
That diamond upon your finger, say
Reads
article of thy gentry.
To fortune's yoke, but let thy dauntless mind
Let's exchange charity.
To raise my state to title of a queen,
Enter YORK and BUCKINGHAM with their Guard and break in
I am fall'n in this offence.
Speak to thy father ere thou yield thy breath!
The Jew shall have my flesh, blood, bones and all,
Exeunt
He hath deserved worthily of his country: and his
land now as cheap as stinking mackerel.
What kind of woman is't?
Within this hour my man shall be with thee
Come hither, Gardiner.
That heaven hath infused them with these spirits,
We are, my lord; and come to have the warrant
We yield our town and lives to thy soft mercy.
Or wilt thou ride? thy horses shall be trapp'd,
Yet fear not thou, but speak audaciously.'
good wine in thy master's way.
Right son to the right Vincentio;
You would be satisfied?
Such a mad marriage never was before:
Be a child o' the time.
That you beat me at the mart, I have your hand to show:
They are.
Even from the east to the west!
forbear both.
Well said, old mocker: I must needs be friends
But curb it, spite of seeing. O, my lord,
Shall quite strike off all service I have done,
He hath a great infection, sir, as one would say, to serve--
And lowly words were ransom for their fault.
Feed him with apricocks and dewberries,
Not I.
To think an English courtier may be wise,
Music. Enter the Daughter of ANTIOCHUS
I am to find you thus: I have been to seek you.
And dogged York, that reaches at the moon,
one out of the table.
Destruction fang mankind! Earth, yield me roots!
The uncleanly savours of a slaughter-house;
In him, a royal prince, and many moe
I had a brother, then. Heaven keep your honour!
Where ever Englishman durst set his foot.
Unless he seek to thrust you out perforce.
His napkin, with his true tears all bewet,
and heir to Mars; set at upper end o' the table; no
'Wonder of nature,'--
surely! O that I were a man for his sake! or that I
SCENE VI. Another part of the field.
I spy.
Has Ventidius and Lucullus denied him?
Or butchers killing flies.
His qualities being at this poor price, I need not
God keep your ladyship still in that mind! so some
With many legions of strange fantasies,
So, fare you well.
How then? shall he marry her?
Up, sword; and know thou a more horrid hent:
True.
Presumptuous dame, ill-nurtured Eleanor,
shall do it.
Hearing the surges threat: we must all part
Let me not be pent up, sir: I will fast, being loose.
I will acquit you.
John Cade of Ashford,
With the least cause these his new honours, which
What, do we meet together?
mains d'un chevalier, je pense, le plus brave,
You ne'er oppress'd me with a mother's groan,
Beshrew his hand, I scarce could understand it.
Up to some scaffold, there to lose their heads?
O traitors, villains!
To present your highness with the man.
cats and blind puppies. I have professed me thy
Why, here's he that was wont to thwack our general,
Silence that fellow: I would he had some cause
That I, unworthy body as I am,
His head is off and sent to Angelo.
Was never call'd to bear my part,
Of other men's secrets, I beseech you.
Or Ethiopian's tooth, or the fann'd
Accost, Sir Andrew, accost.
desperate ones, for a madman owes 'em.
They say, is shamefully bereft of life.
Marry, hang you!
For my part, I had rather bear with you than bear
Be soon collected and all things thought upon
Ay, night by night, in studying good for England,
One might interpret.
Enter PORTIA and LUCIUS
For who, that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise,
SCENE IV. The forest.
So Judas did to Christ: but he, in twelve,
Or else a rude despiser of good manners,
Now I perceive thou art a reverend father;
If the dull brainless Ajax come safe off,
A market-maid to Rome; and have prevented
I would try, if I could cry 'hem' and have him.
Of this was Tamora delivered;
Trumpets within
Wilt thou set thy foot o' my neck?
a muffler and a kerchief, and so escape.
Where hast been, Hal?
I might know more.
And I for Rosalind.
And here is writ 'love-wounded Proteus.'
While as the silly owner of the goods
Moon-calf, speak once in thy life, if thou beest a
Rialto; a beggar, that was used to come so smug upon
of whoremaster man, to lay his goatish
By darkening my clear sun. My lord, farewell.
cannot choose; and to eat no fish.
To think I can be undiscernible,
capacity and breeding; his employment between his
Were but a weak disabling of myself.
Just as you left them; all prisoners, sir,
Methinks my lord should be religious
him read many lectures against it, and I thank God
Methinks these peers of France should smile at that.
Good Maria, let this fellow be looked to. Where's
Dido and her AEneas shall want troops,
Yes, surely.
What means your grace?
And when I ask'd you what the matter was,
Their powers are marching unto Paris-ward.
Death is the fairest cover for her shame
Good or bad?
Noise again
I wish your highness
He hath a wisdom that doth guide his valour
I warrant you, madam, we wil l make that sure.
If judgement lie in them, then so do we,
With hate in those where I expect most love!
Good den, good den.
And champion me to the utterance! Who's there!
which oft the ear of greatness needs must hear,
Fidele, sir.
You thus have publish'd me! Gentle my lord,
The Moor already changes with my poison:
Five or six thousand horse, I said,-- I will say
No less in space, validity, and pleasure,
Smile to't before; if winterly, thou need'st
Shall taste our mercy. Go and tell them so.
What? thou liest! Sir Alice Ford! These knights
You know me, do you not?
The king will venture at it. Either the cardinal,
such shallow follies in others, become the argument
Like one another's glass to trim them by:
Then fly. What, from myself?   Great reason why:
Softer and sweeter than the lustful bed
country mistresses; this gentleman at that time
Blessed be your royal grace!
Give me your hand: you are now within a foot
Exeunt
That light we see is burning in my hall.
How like you the young German, the Duke of Saxony's nephew?
Never, never. Come, away, away!
That swiftest wing of recompense is slow
Such water-colours to impaint his cause;
In pleasure of my spleen.' And in this fashion,
It will inflame you, it will make you mad:
But tickles still the sore.
It was a lover and his lass,
My heart suspects more than mine eye can see.
But shall all our houses of resort in the suburbs be
If I might beseech you, gentlemen, to repair some
honey-bag, signior. Where's Mounsieur Mustardseed?
DON
Let Rome in Tiber melt, and the wide arch
The doors are broke.
like an impediment in the current, made it more
And I'll be sworn you would believe my saying,
As I might love: I never gave him token.
Except mine own name: that some whirlwind bear
Made hard with kneeling, I do pray to thee,
Tell her I have chastised the amorous Trojan,
Caesar fell down. If the tag-rag people did not
Exit
Do make against it. No, good Worcester, no,
answered her; my very visor began to assume life and
I will wait on him, fair Mistress Anne.
mind is: Why give him gold enough and marry him to
Here love; thou see'st how diligent I am
And be no more an exhaled meteor,
And wear his colours like a tumbler's hoop!
lord and my niece confirms no less: therefore this
though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet
From stubborn Turks and Tartars, never train'd
SCENE I. The Forest of Arden.
Enter PETRUCHIO, KATHARINA, HORTENSIO, and Servants
So runs the world away.
What companies are near: pray you, away;
thou art lovely. More fairer than fair, beautiful
'Tis well, mistress; your choice agrees with mine;
I would be loath to have you overflown with a
Or that the negligence may well be laugh'd at,
with interchange of gifts, letters, loving
That I may live to say, The dog is dead!
Exit
That I should neither sell nor give nor lose it.
To mine own fortune and inform'd her fully
Nay, he's a thief too: have you not heard men say
You do unbend your noble strength, to think
That these hot tears, which break from me perforce,
Call that same Isabel here once again; I would speak with her.
avoids them with great discretion, or undertakes
Now much beshrew my manners and my pride,
Advise him to a caution, to hold what distance
ho! here he comes, to beguile two hours in a sleep,
That thou shalt know. Trojan, he is awake,
and there is an end.
To hale thy vengeful waggon swift away,
Quench'd in the chaste beams of the watery moon,
Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD IV sick, QUEEN  ELIZABETH, DORSET, RIVERS, HASTINGS, BUCKINGHAM, GREY, and others
Is a mad tale he told to-day at dinner,
drab, and uses the traitor Calchas' tent: I'll
I will go meet them: and, my Lord AEneas,
afflictions, say, that I cannot pleasure such an
Dare he presume to scorn us in this manner?
If thou wilt curse, thy father, that poor rag,
Then art thou damned for keeping thy word with the devil.
That will confess perfection so could err
Those clamorous harbingers of blood and death.
Well mayst thou woo, and happy be thy speed!
it when I go from home; welcomed home with it when
Voice, gait and action of a gentlewoman:
The French king's sister. Heaven will one day open
As what I think might be, but what I know
The mistress which I serve quickens what's dead
As who should say 'I am Sir Oracle,
coxcomb? in your own conscience, now?
If he be gone, he'll make his grave a bed;
The truth of your own seeming; that you may--
O brother, with the dismall'st object hurt
counsellor, or no?
And of thy cunning had no diffidence:
Thou think'st there is no more such shapes as he,
And, sister, as the winds give benefit
at home; therefore leave us.
Flourish. Enter CAESAR; ANTONY, for the course;  CALPURNIA, PORTIA, DECIUS BRUTUS, CICERO, BRUTUS,  CASSIUS, and CASCA; a great crowd following, among them a Soothsayer
forswear him, or else we are all undone.
Of all encertainties himself commended,
His brother's death at Bristol, the Lord Scroop.
After these ways; so, it will make us mad.
And shrive you of a thousand idle pranks.
Did not you hear a cry?
To SELEUCUS
It is too heavy for so light a tune.
Your ladyship is ignorant what it is.
Most welcome!
My discontented peers! What! mother dead!
Exeunt OBERON, TITANIA, and train
two and thirty, a pip out? Whom would to God I had
My spritely brethren, I propend to you
seems her affections have their full bent. Love me!
To fasten in our thoughts that they have courage;
Exeunt GRATIANO and LORENZO
SCENE III. The Duke of Albany's palace.
Bade her wrong stay and her displeasure fly,
Merely our own traitors. And as in the common course
Who is't that can inform me?
Come, Hippolyta.
but a cheveril glove to a good wit: how quickly the
For I profess not talking; only this--
Dolabella!
'Tis past eight already, sir.
to the deanery, and dispatch it quickly. Go before
On our side like the token'd pestilence,
hath him, and that soundly.
Thy head, all indirectly, gave direction:
Ah, poor our sex! this fault in us I find,
Must by the hungry now be fed upon:
directions in the true disciplines of the wars, look
Is it possible he should know what he is, and be
Flourish. Alarum. A retreat is sounded. Flourish.  Enter, from one side, COMINIUS with the Romans; from the other side, MARCIUS, with his arm in a scarf
Brothers, you muse what chat we two have had.
You must to Pomfret, not unto the Tower.
So much to my good comfort, as it is
Will answer as a law.
Not that we love words better, as you do.
I lost mine eye in laying the prize aboard,
Ay, on the front.
Good morrow, good Lieutenant: I am sorry
In Hector's wrath.
The Turkish preparation makes for Rhodes;
And all the fellowship I hold now with him
For every word: he is so kind that he now
O'ermaster 't as you may. And now, good friends,
Why, good sir?
Mustardseed.
To me for justice and rough chastisement;
To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd,
Ay, crook-back, here I stand to answer thee,
One sin, I know, another doth provoke;
The spring, the head, the fountain of your blood
Brake off our business for the Holy Land.
For your best health and recreation.
Properly ours.
'The fiend, the fiend:' he led me to that place.
Must be as 'tis. My gentle babe Marina, whom,
Antiochus, I thank thee, who hath taught
And an eternal curse fall on you! Let me know.
If not, shun me, and I will spare your haunts.
Why seek'st thou to possess me with these fears?
That befal preposterously.
them to mending. They say the lady is fair; 'tis a
Be thus when thou art dead, and I will kill thee,
and the most unworthy of her you call Rosalind that
Re-enter MARK ANTONY and DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
Will rush into the state: it cannot be.
My father gave him welcome to the shore;
Ay, is't, I warrant him: do but read.
Which pries not to the interior, but, like the martlet,
My news shall be the fruit to that great feast.
Retires
Beseech your highness, give us better credit:
For I will be thy beadsman, Valentine.
ACT V
Upon my life, began her devilish practises:
Your loss your sport: I hope you know that we
Wedding is great Juno's crown:
This speedy and quick appearance argues proof
Now, fair befal thee, good Petruchio!
Her portion equal his.
Which fondly you would here impose on me;
She would never tell
But there's no remedy; I shall answer it.
No, forbear;
I have provided for you: stay awhile,
Wherein the acorn cradled. Follow.
No: first shall war unpeople this my realm;
Both on one sampler, sitting on one cushion,
This to Apollo; this to the god of war;
She is a woman, therefore may be won;
To boast of this or take the praise from God
To Agamemnon: go we to him straight.
woman: and so, I pray thee, call Beatrice: I give
The breath is gone whereof this praise is made:
This letter he early bid me give his father,
Not Erebus itself were dim enough
I' the parts of France, till term of eighteen months
a brown favour--for so 'tis, I must confess,--
Sir Robert's son! Ay, thou unreverend boy,
Well, Suffolk, thou shalt not see me blush
come in my way, so: if he do not, if I come in his
Vell.
We'll have no Cupid hoodwink'd with a scarf,
We hate the prince of Tyre, and thou must kill him:
I'll find a fairer face not wash'd to-day.
My gracious lord, no tribune hears you speak.
Why, sir, I brought you word an hour since that the
Trust not my reading nor my observations,
for nothing that my nose fell a-bleeding on
Hang in what place you please. Here, my good lord.
Biron did swear himself out of all suit.
I, now the voice of the recorded law,
You do not counsel well:
It is enough I may but call her mine.
When, for fame's sake, for praise, an outward part,
In their best fortunes strong; but want will perjure
They mean this night in Sardis to be quarter'd;
A piece of ice: if thou doubt it, thou mayst slide
May the world know them?
Scatter'd by winds and high tempestuous gusts,
Hence, away! now all is well:
With absolute Marina: so
To a Servant
Who was so firm, so constant, that this coil
Would you imagine, or almost believe,
Welcome, dear cousin, my thoughts' sovereign
Gentlewoman, good day! I pray you, be my mean
He is not yet arrived: nor know I aught
Speak and look back, and pry on every side,
and Helen so blushed, an Paris so chafed, and all the
What you have said, and show yourselves true Romans.
Save in the office and affairs of love:
And would not take their part? Sinful Macduff,
Antonio, I am married to a wife
With thousands of these quarter'd slaves, as high
Ready to drop upon me that, when I waked,
How now, my lord, what say the citizens?
What in the contrary?
To bring bad news: give to a gracious message.
Have we thus met? O, never say hereafter
Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
And, sweet sprites, the burthen bear.
Enter PORTIA and NERISSA
daughter nor my sister; we are gone else. Sir, I
we are married, that we may lighten our own hearts
What means my niece Lavinia by these signs?
And henceforth I am thy true servitor:
DON
Or I, whate'er it be,
Seek for thy noble father in the dust:
A mark! O, mark but that mark! A mark, says my lady!
Who will go to hazard with me for twenty prisoners?
And tread it under foot with all contempt,
Abhorr'd your person.
But we must win your grace to go with us
What, Longaville! and reading! listen, ear.
Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel?
That come to hear a merry bawdy play,
Thy safety being the motive.
I shall, my lord.
What pleasure was he given to?
in that surge, like a horse-shoe; think of
Labeo and Flavius, set our battles on:
'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twill away gain, from me to
Sir, if it please your honour, this is not so.
On things would hurt me more. But I'll go in.
Doth want example: who hath read or heard
Even of your mettle, of your very blood;
Ay, but hearken, sir; though the chameleon Love can
I did so.
As love doth give my heart; no woman's heart
We will not fly, but to our enemies' throats.
She died at night; I'll say so. Who can cross it?
que je suis le bon ecolier; j'ai gagne deux mots
of the sun's! if thou didst, then behold that compound.
Exeunt QUEEN MARGARET and PRINCE EDWARD
Madam, I swear I use no art at all.
Go with my brothers to my lords of England:
Truly, shepherd, in respect of itself, it is a good
No, my lord, not I.
At Lacedaemon and Byzantium
Lift up your countenance, as it were the day
Shall be so ever.
And see how I regarded Caius Cassius.
Signior, hang! base muleters of France!
no wit, manners, nor honesty, but to gabble like
And your great love to me restrains you thus:
Speak of me as I am; nothing extenuate,
Comfort, good comfort! We must to the king and show
Though my estate be fallen, I was well born,
Enter Ghost
Re-enter Servants severally
Stay, fellow; I can read.
As letting her pass so: had I spoke with her,
Would from my forehead wipe a perjured note;
Whose souls do bear an equal yoke Of love,
they feared the death, they have borne life away;
What, the chain?
And my help.
'Tis that they seek, and they in seeking that
conscience, there are verier knaves desire to live,
Did hold his eyes lock'd in her crystal looks.
that he is a gouty Briareus, many hands and no use,
Marcus, attend him in his ecstasy,
For certain, sir, he is not: I have a file
I do engage my life.
I doubt it not, sir; but you will curse your
is a little variations.
Then rose again and bow'd her to the people:
Who is so far from Italy removed
And I will use the olive with my sword,
Exit
country's friend,
She is as far high-soaring o'er thy praises
O, they have lived long on the alms-basket of words.
Herself poised with herself in either eye:
can lick their fingers.
Apparel vice like virtue's harbinger;
Thou dost belie her, and thou art a devil.
Enter certain Reapers, properly habited: they  join with the Nymphs in a graceful dance;  towards the end whereof PROSPERO starts  suddenly, and speaks; after which, to a  strange, hollow, and confused noise, they heavily vanish
He shall have merely justice and his bond.
Have you deserved: it is my father's music
Besides, the fashion of the time is changed--
For quick accumulation of renown,
But, saying thus, instead of oil and balm,
Raise me this beggar, and deny 't that lord;
He gave his nose and took't away again;
I forgive him.
Ay, and you hear him cog, see him dissemble,
Why, God will send more, if the man will be
house of her! Come on.
Begin to chase the ignorant fumes that mantle
How true a gentleman you send relief,
Do paint the meadows with delight,
He was the author, thou the instrument.
With that same purpose-changer, that sly devil,
Unvenerable be thy hands, if thou
Believe me, sir, had I such venture forth,
To kiss her burial. Should I go to church
To-morrow is the joyful day, Audrey; to-morrow will
He must have some attendants. Though his humour
I speak from certainties. Nay, more,
Not by the title. She is young, wise, fair;
A cold world, Curtis, in every office but thine; and
Enter KING RICHARD II and QUEEN, DUKE OF AUMERLE,  BUSHY, GREEN, BAGOT, LORD ROSS, and LORD WILLOUGHBY
And, in despite, I'll cram thee with more food!
Not palating the taste of her dishonour,
If he took you a box o' the ear, you might have your
What, doth she swoon? use means for her recovery.
Dark cloudy death o'ershades his beams of life,
Here is a mourning Rome, a dangerous Rome,
Your own present folly and her passing deformity:
And there will we abide. I do desire you
As if with Circe she would change my shape!
with the horse upon her, how he beat me because
I pray thee, stay a while: I hope my holy humour
Come on, you madcap, I'll to the alehouse with you
And by a stranger!--No, he hath enjoyed her:
cannot choose but weep, to think they should lay him
I have served Prince Florizel and in my time
melancholy, I did commend the black-oppressing humour
The humour rises; it is good: humour me the angels.
That thou art thus estranged from thyself?
Well, sir, to do you courtesy,
Will they return?
to endure her loud alarums, why, man, there be good
Knocking within
Might in the times to come have ta'en revenge,
When misery could beguile the tyrant's rage,
Exit POLONIUS
So hung upon with love, so fortunate,
Ha, majesty! how high thy glory towers,
This expedition's charge.
the flatterer. Heavens, that I were a lord!
Exeunt all but CLOTEN
A jewel in a ten-times-barr'd-up chest
dumb; yet are they much too light for the bore of
And prompt me, plain and holy innocence!
Unto the climate that they point upon.
Spirt up so suddenly into the clouds,
Let me for this my life-time reign as king.
upon this riddle runs the wisdom of the world. This
Exeunt
victory in his pocket? the wounds become him.
Enter QUEEN ELIZABETH and the DUCHESS OF YORK
O hell! to choose love by another's eyes.
Would have inform'd for preparation.
Shall lose a hair through Bassanio's fault.
His deputy anointed in His sight,
Two.
in't; and I would I were the first that ever
Keep there: now talk at pleasure of your safety.
I never gave them condign punishment:
Earlier too, sir, if now I be one.
tell thee, I am as well in my wits as any man in Illyria.
you: we coted them on the way; and hither are they
If now I court not but omit, my fortunes
what's spoken, I swear.
Enter BRABANTIO, RODERIGO, and Officers with torches and weapons
Wilt thou make a trust a transgression? The
not be allowed in Vienna.
Exeunt
This gentleman, the prince's near ally,
Except a sword or sceptre balance it:
They call false caterpillars, and intend their death.
If I were mad, I should forget my son,
Wilt thou be daunted at a woman's sight?
I knew you not: what news with you so early?
This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me,
Though 'twere to buy a world of happy days,
'Tis some odd humour pricks him to this fashion;
She should not visit you.
Tranio, I burn, I pine, I perish, Tranio,
Tender your own good fortune?
I had a wound here that was like a T,
We talk with goblins, owls and sprites:
Stay yet another day, thou trusty Welshman:
But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
Who was enroll'd 'mongst wonders, and when we,
Let the mark have a prick in't, to mete at, if it may be.
To be shame's scorn and subject of mischance!
Great men oft die by vile bezonians:
Make my aunt merry with some pleasing tale.
Arm it in rags, a pigmy's straw does pierce it.
Shall sleep no more; Macbeth shall sleep no more.'
Not used to toil, did almost sweat to bear
I hope so.
My brother did love Juliet,
Wilt thou be gone? Sweet Valentine, adieu!
Longer than I have time to tell his years!
Cry, Trojans, cry! practise your eyes with tears!
Exit
Whoever shoots at him, I set him there;
Here.
Shalt feel our justice, in whose easiest passage
The bell then beating one,--
Of this most grievous guilty murder done!
Nor are they living
Rebuke and dread correction wait on us
be misprised: we will make it our suit to the duke
Exeunt, severally
In faith, I cannot: what would you have me do?
On the fore-finger of an alderman,
Hark, Polydore, it sounds! But what occasion
the health of black Othello.
We were as twinn'd lambs that did frisk i' the sun,
What says he of our marriage? what of that?
in the forest.
His tears pure messengers sent from his heart,
What follows, then, my lord?
Hadst thou thy wits, and didst persuade revenge,
Is found a truth now: for it grows again
But this, which they produce from Pharamond,
Have made them mules, silenced their pleaders and
Ambitiously for rule and empery,
Now seems to it. Your patience this allowing,
Make way there for the princess.
Look, he recovers.
If this be so, as yet the glass seems true,
Besides, this sorrow is an enemy,
Before, I loved thee as a brother, John;
Paris is dirt to him; and, I warrant, Helen, to
That I should questionless be fortunate!
O God, seest Thou this, and bearest so long?
After young Arthur, claim this land for mine;
Retiring
Conceives by idleness and nothing teems
No, in good earnest.
How now Ulysses!
That never set a squadron in the field,
And with declining head into his bosom,
Comfort's in heaven; and we are on the earth,
That all the treasons for these eighteen years
Would I were with him! He would always say--
But what said Warwick to these injuries?
The widow likes it not, for she looks very sad.
SCENE V. Another part of the forest.
And would not harm me.
The third o' the world is yours; which with a snaffle
Then, father Salisbury, kneel we together;
Condemn'd upon the act of fornication
First mine own service to your grace; the next,
me merry. I was as virtuously given as a gentleman
So should I give consent to flatter sin.
Four lagging winters and four wanton springs
Good fool, for my brother's death.
He's almost slain, and Roderigo dead.
From the report that goes upon your goodness;
That, lying by the violet in the sun,
Is't known who did this more than bloody deed?
Ask God for temperance; that's the appliance only
till he had both tune and words; which so drew the
bear-herd, and now by present profession a tinker?
And bring away the armour that is there.
Of Pericles the careful search,
To thirty thousand.
SCENE V. The same. The senate-house. The Senate sitting.
Alter thy course for Tyre. When canst thou reach it?
What, wouldst thou have me go and beg my food?
I'll give it, sir; and therefore spare my life.
matter between party and party, if you chance to be
So rare a wonder'd father and a wife
The obsequies that I for thee will keep
And presently repair to Crosby Place;
At Mariana's house to-night. Her cause and yours
Lucilius' Servant: Many do keep their chambers are not sick:
Were all thy children kind and natural!
Marshal the rest, as they deserve their grace.
[Aside]  And yet 'tis almost 'gainst my conscience.
Have you conspired, have you with these contrived
Such outward things dwell not in my desires:
His looks are full of peaceful majesty,
To such proceeding
Desires your majesty to leave the field
Theretake it to you, trenchers, cups, and all;
for the defence of a town, our general is excellent.
think but, in the end, the villainies of man will
Of courts, of princes, of the tricks in war:
Stand bare and naked, trembling at themselves?
The swifter speed the better.
Enter SICINIUS and BRUTUS
There is no fellow in the firmament.
If it should give your age such cause of fear:
Exit
shall read it in--what do you call there?
And am I then a man to be beloved?
To marry Princess Margaret for your grace,
Enter EDWARD, running
Five men to twenty! though the odds be great,
Happy is your grace,
The more and less came in with cap and knee;
Exit PAROLLES
And not seek a queen to make him rich:
labour ill bestowed.
But rather wishing a more strict restraint
flagon of Rhenish on my head once. This same skull,
If I break faith, this word shall speak for me;
he's much out of health, and keeps his chamber.
herald's coat without sleeves; and the shirt, to say
Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
Or bring him off: fate, hear me what I say!
care not who knows so much of my mettle.
A marvellous poor one.
O child! O child! my soul, and not my child!
What dost thou mean by shaking of thy head?
Hence, you long-legg'd spinners, hence!
A fine woman! a fair woman! a sweet woman!
Noble Aufidius,
This night he makes a supper, and a great one,
company! fair desires, in all fair measure,
Hath dimm'd your infant morn to aged night.
persuasion can with ease attempt you, I will go
So meet for this great errand. Please your ladyship
Slain by his servant, going to put out
I have been i' the market-place; and, sir,'tis fit
Well; keep good quarter and good care to-night:
Fair be to you, my lord, and to all this fair
ACT IV
That ever ear did hear to such effect:
And therefore homeward did they bend their course.
You know no Centaur? you received no gold?
Shall in procession sing her endless praise.
he was a man. But I will forward with my device.
Not mine to speak on 't.
'Farewell:'
SCENE III. A bedchamber.
It is the green-eyed monster which doth mock
Then thus: I have from Port le Blanc, a bay
Look with a gentle eye upon this wretch!
For you or any: how far I have proceeded,
My heart fly to your service; there resides,
'Tis not an hour since I left him well:
It struck mine ear most terribly.
Driving them forward
To strike at me, upon his misconstruction;
Take all myself.
And we may soon our satisfaction have
And vice sometimes by action dignified.
By its own visage: if I then deny it,
Exit
Young Talbot's valour makes me smile at thee:
The Lord Grandpre.
Would they work in mild aspect!
That thou shalt do no murder: and wilt thou, then,
My dull deaf ears a little use to hear:
Even in your armours, as you are address'd,
And my consent ne'er ask'd herein before!
Unready! ay, and glad we 'scaped so well.
Which you know cannot err: the love I bear him
Tell me in sadness, who is that you love.
So do you.
And bid it pass?
That tends to vice in man, but I affirm
As on a pillory, looking through the lute;
Enter RATCLIFF
Can you, my Lord of Winchester, behold
Are hated most of those they did deceive,
...
your hovel.
To make itself, in thee, fair and admired!
What would you have? Your gentleness shall force
Or else the world, too saucy with the gods,
For, if I should as lion come in strife
ready here hard by in the brew-house: and when I
The lives of many. The cease of majesty
Most monstrous! oh!
That you stand forfeit, being those that sue?
[Aside]  Well, heaven forgive him! and forgive us all!
But floods of tears will drown my oratory,
Thou know'st already.
My man of men.
Why he, a harmless necessary cat;
Of the beast Caliban and his confederates
Doth ravish like enchanting harmony;
But stay, here come the gardeners:
Come, sister: I am press'd down with conceit--
And meet me presently at Berkeley.
The pedlar's silken treasury and have pour'd it
That judgment cannot cure. Which thing to do,
The mercy that was quick in us but late,
Talking of hawking; nothing else, my lord.
That you stand pensive, as half malcontent?
I' the name of fame and honour; which dies i'
Proud and ambitious tribune, canst thou tell?
maiden walls that war hath never entered.
Of whom so often I have heard renown,
Till in her ashes she lie buried.
Enter OTHELLO and IAGO
The morning comes upon 's: we'll leave you, Brutus.
Must kings neglect, that private men enjoy!
mine only son, and heir to the lands of me, Signior Vincentio.
He raised a sigh so piteous and profound
Of stuff'd sufficiency: now from the oracle
Enter Time, the Chorus
And flecked darkness like a drunkard reels
thy dowry: be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as
That guard, and most unusual vigilance,
The gain I seek is, quiet in the match.
thee coward: but I would give a thousand pound I
command; I have turned away my other guests: they
to bed betimes. Does not our life consist of the
her, unlock her closet, take forth paper, fold it,
I am too perfect in; and, but for shame,
We do it wrong, being so majestical,
Which likes me better than to wish us one.
Is pleased you shall to the Tower, till you know
What will you do? Let's not consort with them:
Are sanctified and holy traitors to you.
Truly, Master Holofernes, the epithets are sweetly
And ask of thee forgiveness: so we'll live,
To make against your highness' claim to France
This minion stood upon her chastity,
Exeunt WILLIAM STAFFORD and SIR HUMPHREY, and soldiers
thankful! And when she went away now, 'Let this
Good morrow, my good lords.
whipped for holding my peace. I had rather be any
A rarer spirit never
Come, your lord calls!
The business of the state does him offence,
These growing feathers pluck'd from Caesar's wing
Or shall I think in silver she's immured,
Placed in contempt! Farewell, fair cruelty.
upon you; and, I pray you, your name?
Thaliard, behold, here's poison, and here's gold;
This news is mortal to the queen: look down
[Advancing]  Dumain, thy love is far from charity.
Hold thy peace:
I will answer it straight; I have done all this.
I would on great occasion speak with you.
Will I give place or notice.
Spare England, for it is your native coast;
Enter VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA, and MENENIUS
You were best to go to bed and dream again,
It is a thing I made, which hath the king
Good morrow, old Sir Thomas Erpingham:
SCENE I. The same.
more comfortable sort: if my son were my husband, I
I faintly broke with thee of Arthur's death;
Hast thou conspired with thy brother too,
Madam!
My latter part of life.
seen the day of wrong through the little hole of
Which craves the instant use.
SCENE II. Ante-chamber to KING HENRY VIII's apartment.
And gentlemen in England now a-bed
him last night.
They fight
I think thou dost;
hence, and not a word; for here comes more company.
Mercy o' me, what a multitude are here!
Exit
Now, for my life, the knave doth court my love:
Who should be pitiful, if you be not?
I do not know what witchcraft's in him, but
Myself I'll dedicate. Let me make men know
As his strong sides can volley.
You Dukes of Orleans, Bourbon, and of Berri,
eat; go to, follow.
They've not prepared for us.
For my life, to break with him about Beatrice.
And lose my hopes.
King Lewis, I here protest, in sight of heaven,
As friend remember'd not.
Bow, stubborn knees; and, heart with strings of steel,
great, reasonable great: marry, for my part, I
With entertaining great Hyperion.
Excellent well.
For wheresoe'er thou art in this world's globe,
[Aside]  But love will not be spurr'd to what
Who did guide,
the carpets laid, and every thing in order?
Where's the cook? is supper ready, the house
So minutes, hours, days, months, and years,
As much in private, and I'll bid adieu.
My blessing go with thee!
Yet to beat down these rebels here at home.
I cannot think it. Hark! what noise is this?
Portia, art thou gone?
And one, already, of the privy council.
No, faith, I'll not stay a jot longer.
Or, wanting strength to do thee so much good,
When from the mountain-top Pisanio show'd thee,
In her strong toil of grace.
No more, sweet Hamlet!
The trumpery in my house, go bring it hither,
Though I am bound to every act of duty,
Many, nay, almost any.
mounsieur, bring me the honey-bag. Do not fret
Exit
Here is no drink! Hark, Marcus, what she says;
I shall be glad to learn of noble men.
Dealing with witches and with conjurers:
Home without boots, and in foul weather too!
My lord?
So be it!
wore it? I mean, in a sort.
Of her delivery to this valiant Greek
'Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and
And from thy hated presence part I so:
Pray, sir, in what?
withal, who Time trots withal, who Time gallops
Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd,
And, after some small space, being strong at heart,
That which I have than, coveting for more,
Know you this ring? this ring was his of late.
I'll be supposed upon a book, his face is the worst
And we will come. March away.
Thou hast been whipp'd for following him: henceforth
Could not take truce with the unruly spleen
Yet let not this make thee be bloody-minded;
Of Coeur-de-lion knighted in the field.
In all designs begun on earth below
But it raises the greater war between him and
Whom love hath turn'd almost the wrong side out,
Low alarums
Seem'd to die too; yea, at that very moment
But now I am return'd and that war-thoughts
for young Charbon the Puritan and old Poysam the
A fearful army, led by Caius Marcius
I'll tame you; I'll bring you in subjection.
O, I am stabb'd with laughter! Where's her grace?
He cannot be compell'd to't--once remove
Received a second life; and second father
His highness shall speak in, I do beseech
Hast thou not worldly pleasure at command,
O, my lord,
About it, gentlemen!
Who's that that bears the sceptre?
His spongy officers, who shall bear the guilt
O, I would thou didst,
But, say, it is my humour: is it answer'd?
Which, I beseech you, call a virtuous sin--
What dost thou profess? what wouldst thou with us?
gentlemanlike dogs under the duke's table: he had
First, madam, he is well.
I conjure only but to raise up him.
report speaks goldenly of his profit: for my part,
Is to remove proud Somerset from the king,
Who freely give to every one that comes
crow-keeper: draw me a clothier's yard. Look,
Exit
Right noble is thy merit, well I wot.
That they may have their wages duly paid 'em,
Nor dare I say 'tis mine, and yet it is;
Is he at Master Ford's already, think'st thou?
How now, master Parson! Good morrow, good Sir Hugh.
poor gallant knave.
DON
Nor when thy warlike father, like a child,
I' the commonwealth I would by contraries
part at once, cues and all Pyramus enter: your cue
to the doors: watch to-night, pray to-morrow.
SCENE VIII. London. The palace.
I believe thee; for I think thou never wast where
Go, sirrah, find him out. Come, Valentine.
Prepare the body then, and follow us.
SCENE V. Court before the same.
You shall look fairer, ere I give or hazard.
But in your bride you bury brotherhood.
Though they had wings: slave, soulless villain, dog!
Well said.
Dabbled in blood; and he squeak'd out aloud,
'Cucullus non facit monachum:' honest in nothing
Of being tyrannous, since we so openly
And that I partly know the instrument
How far is it to Berkeley? and what stir
Into this scatter'd kingdom; who already,
Nay, that's a mock: I have seen a lady's nose
I charge thee use her well, even for my charge;
Mounsieur Cobweb, good mounsieur, get you your
For 'tis thy rival. O thou senseless form,
To call him villain? and then to glance from him
Reads
It fits we thus proceed, or else no witness
Slander her love, and he forgave it her.
Let Somerset be regent over the French,
What think you of a duchess? have you limbs
And all is semblative a woman's part.
Now the pledge; now, now, now!
Sans sans, I pray you.
Dissembling harlot, thou art false in all;
How if they will not?
to go to bed now: come, knight; come, knight.
Thou precious varlet,
Have scared thy husband from the use of wits.
Fair cousin, you debase your princely knee
what in the world he is
Her face, like heaven, enticeth thee to view
Whose horrid image doth unfix my hair
Once in a month recount what thou hast been,
It is more worthy to leap in ourselves,
O my dear Cassio! my sweet Cassio! O Cassio,
Where he for grace is kneel'd to.
danger where he was like to find fame. To a cruel
My lord would speak; my duty hushes me.
Goes the king hence to-day?
Nay, I know not. You have heard of the news abroad;
Which God defend a knight should violate!--
I have but this to say,
To whose foul mouth no healthsome air breathes in,
impossible you should take true root but by the
Bleeding to Rome, bearing his valiant sons
That neither in our hearts nor outward eyes
Who is 't can read a woman? Is there more?
But empty lodgings and unfurnish'd walls,
Exeunt
Cut me to pieces with thy keen conceit;
Pay with falsehood false exacting,
That kill'd thy daughter:--villain-like, I lie--
Marry, sir, I am helping you to mar that which God
Tell me--but truly--but then speak the truth,
The mother to a hopeful prince, here standing
A dozen years; within which space she died
Enough; hold or cut bow-strings.
And I will do it without fear or doubt,
Exit
Under the blossom that hangs on the bough.
your prophet the Nazarite conjured the devil into. I
Charge him too coldly. Tell him, you are sure
And happy newness, that intends old right.
For it is unpeopled? No:
I am sick of that grief too, as I understand how all
have another leek in my pocket, which you shall eat.
SCENE V. Pomfret castle.
To find persistive constancy in men:
The flat unraised spirits that have dared
Rome, especially his mother, may prevail with him.
I do beseech thy greatness, give him blows
It may be worth thy pains; for I can sing
That shone so brightly when this boy was got,
Hath he born himself penitently in prison? how
What are you there? Your names?
That am a maid, though most ungentle fortune
Our courtiers say all's savage but at court:
Pronounce it for me, sir, to all our friends;
To vice you to't, that you have touch'd his queen
Why, how now? ho, awake! Why are you drawn?
I will with patience hear, and find a time
Exit
in his pew; set ratsbane by his porridge; made film
So, out went the candle, and we were left darkling.
And wherefore call'd Marina?
Whom I encounter'd as the battles join'd.
That he approves the common liar, who
If you choose that, then I am yours withal.
Re-enter BOULT, with the Pirates and MARINA
Five year! by'r lady, a long lease for the clinking
Your presence makes us rich, most noble lord.
But taken and impounded as a stray
When steel grows soft as the parasite's silk,
Come, Marcus; come, kinsmen; this is the way.
I have no more sons of the royal blood
That Bona shall be wife to the English king.
Sir, I would advise you to shift a shirt; the
Tell you the Dauphin I am coming on,
Think you I bear the shears of destiny?
Take I your wish, I leap into the seas,
To such a lowness but his unkind daughters.
Upon his own report and I believe it;
This fellow were a king for our wild faction!
Malcolm and Donalbain, the king's two sons,
her, to satisfy my remembrance the more strongly.
Approves her fit for none but for a king:
Indeed, I have been merrier.
like to have: and, truly, when he dies, thou shalt
And lead thy daughter to a conqueror's bed;
Exit First Servant
I think I have done myself wrong, have I not?
Infer fair England's peace by this alliance.
Sink Rome, and their tongues rot
As the last taste of sweets, is sweetest last,
But if you mind to hold your true obedience,
Cobweb.
Now, Ursula, when Beatrice doth come,
that is my true humour.
further than I meant, to pluck all fears out of you.
The Ghosts vanish
of will or testament which argues a great sickness
ACT V
An't please
may pass with a reproof the easier, sith you
Although you break it when your pleasure serves.
soul is his own. Therefore should every soldier in
against the softness of prosperity, with a discovery
Better than you yourself. Therefore, I pray you,
Environed he was with many foes,
Beats them out, and then retires to his cave
Why, couldst thou perceive so much from her?
Look in upon me then and speak with me,
When would you use it? pray, sir, tell me that.
O woful day!
have been in love?
That's the plain truth: your painted gloss discovers,
Which was not half so beautiful and kind;
And, in conclusion,
I told you, sir, they were red-hot with drinking;
I sought the purchase of a glorious beauty.
Whilst summer lasts and I live here, Fidele,
You rather mine, being yours: and so, great powers,
He is wit's pedler, and retails his wares
therefore, if thou art moved, thou runn'st away.
Would scatter all her spices on the stream,
Or something hath the nothing that I grieve:
Would thou and those thy scars had once prevail'd
But Imogen is your own: do your best wills,
Sweet lords, sweet lovers, O, let us embrace!
in valour, in every thing illegitimate. One bear will
Nor I.
And send it to the king: he for the same
You have begot me, bred me, loved me: I
There 's nothing serious in mortality:
That Caesar will not grant. O, I grow faint.
You speak a language that I understand not:
I am a poor fellow, sir.
I think thou dost; and, indeed, with most painful
There weep and leave it crying; and, for the babe
the curses he shall have, the tortures he shall
Always a villain's office or a fool's.
Young blood doth not obey an old decree:
The princes orgulous, their high blood chafed,
To these injunctions every one doth swear
Of these our dear-beloved solemnized;
Envenom him with words, or get thee gone
To ease their stomachs with their bitter tongues.
Is my dear son with such sour company:
Not to be shaked; the agent for his master
At length, another ship had seized on us;
Nor come we to add sorrow to your tears,
And live, as we do, in this wilderness?
And all good men, as every prince should do;
But I return his sworn and mortal foe:
Which Caesar and his fortune bare at once.
And I must find that title in your tongue,
How came he mad?
And stay'd the odds by adding four.
As closely to conceal what we impart:
a difference. There's a daisy: I would give you
and, to inure thyself to what thou art like to be,
March on, and mark King Richard how he looks.
For Richard, the first son's heir, being dead,
But, my lads, my lads, to-morrow morning, by four
Aaron, I see thou wilt not trust the air
And let us in, your king, whose labour'd spirits,
Dread prince of plackets, king of codpieces,
soldiers, the father of his son, nor the master of
Revenge! About! Seek! Burn! Fire! Kill! Slay!
A fault against the dead, a fault to nature,
Cries out upon abuses, seems to weep
Yet read the gamut of Hortensio.
Of holy reverence; who, I cannot learn.
That sir which serves and seeks for gain,
I'll be with you anon.
Bring in to any of your ancestors.
Brandish your crystal tresses in the sky,
violence of action hath made you reek as a
For he tonight shall lie with Mistress Ford.
mind good; O, there were desolation of gaolers and
EPILOGUE
Should be without regard: what's done is done.
Upon my body with their hellish charms?
Such a dependency of thing on thing,
Enter TITUS ANDRONICUS, with Hunters,  and c., MARCUS, LUCIUS, QUINTUS, and MARTIUS
old ling and our Isbels o' the country are nothing
Flatter and praise, commend, extol their graces;
Than hate of Eglamour that goes with her.
And long live Henry, fourth of that name!
To you in satisfaction; but if not,
But did I never speak of all that time?
Now, as thou lovest me, let me see his letter.
to my shame. The lady is dead upon mine and my
That changeth thus his manners.
To bring me thither?
Who needs must know of her departure and
I, that was wash'd to death with fulsome wine,
Exeunt
As you yourself have forged against yourself
I have done.
Enter Nurse
lord. I'll have no more pity of his age than I
And fall on my side so, against your will.
I think, sir, you can eat none of this homely meat.
[To BRUTUS]  Be that you seem, truly your
Exit Servant
So shall I, love; and so, I pray, be you:
They tend the crown, yet still with me they stay.
[Beneath]  Swear.
For 'twere no charity; yet, to wash your blood
On, to the Capitol!
The mirth o' the feast. Or I'll be thine, my fair,
The cares I give I have, though given away;
And in his company that gentleman.
There is no composition in these news
With much more ease; for my good will is to it,
Environ you, till mischief and despair
the divine forfeit of his soul upon oath, never
You are the fount that makes small brooks to flow:
O cheerful colours! see where Oxford comes!
What, drunk with choler? stay and pause awhile:
Wherefore, sweet-heart? what's your metaphor?
Who can be wise, amazed, temperate and furious,
I never saw so huge a billow, sir,
butterfly: and when he caught it, he let it go
Which, to be spoke, would torture thee.
the trick of singularity: she thus advises thee
Above the moon: we must be burnt for you.
I humbly thank you.
That England, being empty of defence,
But I believe, although I seem so loath,
My purpose is, indeed, a horse of that colour.
Still betters what is done. When you speak, sweet.
The hand was fair before! I have put you out:
To use our utmost  studies in your service.
His wife but yesternight was brought to bed;
Even with the vail and darking of the sun,
Or like an overcharged gun, recoil,
Enter an Attendant
shoulders: but it is no English treason to cut
Like one i' the stocks. Thou hast never in thy life
Well praised! How if she be black and witty?
Almost the sum he pays.
Did not I tell you? Would he were knock'd i' the head!
Then, by myself--
Revive, look up, or I will die with thee!
Marry, that 'marry' is the very theme
So needful for this present: it strikes me, past
The least of which haunting a nobleman
Welcome, gentlemen! ladies that have their toes
Play, music! And you, brides and bridegrooms all,
Enter SPEED and LAUNCE severally
You wrought to be a legate; by which power
May this be borne?--as if his traitorous sons,
What, ho, Brabantio! Signior Brabantio, ho!
Thanks, gentle duke. But where is Pucelle now?
To cross the seas to England and be crown'd
Nature this dowry gave, to glad her presence,
So thou refuse to drink my dear sons' blood.
To revel it with him and his new bride:
To him that ever fears he shall be poor.
you must be watched ere you be made tame, must you?
I think our country sinks beneath the yoke;
His is certain, ours is doubtful.
Your first is dead; or 'twere as good he were,
Destroy'd in such a shape.
Exeunt DUKE OF VENICE, Senators, Officers,  and c
And he to England shall along with you:
simply your having in beard is a younger brother's
The youth you breathe of guilty, be assured
The Duke of Somerset, whom he terms traitor.
Welcome, gentlemen! I have seen the day
Making not reservation of yourselves,
But Ajax is their fool.
But hark, a voice! stay thou but here awhile,
Of great estate, of fresh and stainless youth;
The plebeians have got your fellow-tribune
I mock my name, great king, to flatter thee.
SCENE II. A public place.
Gentlemen, good den: a word with one of you.
Ay, my good lord.
That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth
Aboard our dancing boat; make swift the pangs
Owe and succeed thy weakness.
But she tells to your highness simple truth!
When fame shall in our islands sound her trump,
Leave off discourse of disability:
To PERICLES
Who in a moment even with the earth
Take heed, be wary how you place your words;
let me in.
And sends them weapons wrapped about with lines,
I sent you money, sir, to be your bail,
No, Master Brook; but the peaking Cornuto her
But first I'll do my errand. The good queen,
Offence of mighty note; but to himself
How silver-sweet sound lovers' tongues by night,
and grant of the whole table. He'll go, he says,
Tut, a pin! this shall be answered.
But we will drink together; and you shall bear
for tittles? titles; for thyself? me. Thus,
Good Corporal Nym, show thy valour, and put up your sword.
But, my good lord, I wot not by what power,--
she's a virgin?
The rites of marriage shall be solemnized.
Her uncle Rivers; yea, and, for her sake,
'Twould burst at this. Captain I'll be no more;
I care not for thy sword; I'll make thee known,
Lead on to some foul issue: we all kneel.
Clifford, I say, come forth and fight with me:
To offer service to the Duke of Hereford,
men.
Has a new master: get a new man.
Than can the substance of ten thousand soldiers
Good even, good father.
The nature of an insurrection.
Enter a Messenger
I was seen with her in the manor-house, sitting with
And violation of all faith and troth
Of earned praise, Marina's life
Music plays
to him, it's all one: by God's lid, it does one's
Why, do 'e take it, and the gods give thee good on't!
bolder to chide you for yours.
I am but as a guiltless messenger.
Who cannot err, he did it. Now this follows,--
Of contradiction: being once chafed, he cannot
And rail'd on Lady Fortune in good terms,
And such high vaunts of his nobility,
Loves woman for, besides that hook of wiving,
Whilst by a slave, no gentler than my dog,
Exeunt
Lorenzo, and thy love.
Enter HAMLET, reading
better determine.
Now, Harry, whence come you?
I let forth your half-pint of blood; back,--that's
I am out o' friends, madam; and I hope to have
Aside
Thou liest, malignant thing! Hast thou forgot
I pray you, sir, is it your will
Doth love my daughter and she loveth him,
we cannot with such magnificence--in so rare--I know
At this encounter do so much admire
Ay, my continent of beauty.
So will I never be: so may you miss me;
When noble Pericles shall demand his child?
Inform'd them! Dost thou understand me, man?
I think this be the most villanous house in all
Cry shame upon her? Could she here deny
tyrant: I could play Ercles rarely, or a part to
'O sir,' says answer, 'at your best command;
Enter, below, DIOMEDES
Do you think I'll be forsworn?
And yet as heavy as my weight should be.
In personal suit to make me his lieutenant,
When thou wast here above the ground, I was
A crutch, a crutch! why call you for a sword?
They fight
Delay it not; I'll have him hence to-night:
Than doth become a man. I will remain
ACT III
I do suspect thee very grievously.
of the morning: what I think I utter, and spend my
dream of such a thing?
And tell them that, to ease them of their griefs,
More than thy fame and envy. Fix thy foot.
My son's no dearer.
Howe'er repented after.
He means to recompense the pains you take
Have one man but a man? And that is it
For, did I think thou wouldst not quickly die,
Exit Servant
And Juliet bleeding, warm, and newly dead,
Fie, doff this habit, shame to your estate,
That my discovery be not aimed at;
I do not now fool myself, to let imagination jade
set on some quantity of barren spectators to laugh
his colour: your daughter-in-law had been alive at
To him one of the other twins was bound,
O, if I wake, shall I not be distraught,
Fie, fie, how franticly I square my talk,
his cause be wrong, our obedience to the king wipes
To atone them, for the love I bear to Cassio.
suspicion is not without wit and judgment. But,
Or I'll knock you o'er the mazzard.
Most like;
Tybalt, you rat-catcher, will you walk?
I have strong reasons.
And therefore I will take the Nevils' parts
Or seeming so in skill, cannot or will not
O, bear me witness, night,--
and lighted
Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
Who's there? come in: the wish deserves a welcome.
Calls not your counsels, but our natural goodness
And told me Hubert should put out mine eyes,
Of hot and forcing violation?
Then, prithee, get thee gone: if, for my sake,
Did I impale him with the regal crown?
herself wittingly.
lesser linen. My father named me Autolycus; who
Enter TROILUS
This is a witness that I am thy son.
I warrant you sir;
His thread of life had not so soon decay'd:
What's o'clock, Francis?
Well worthy the best heir o' the world, should not
thou wilt. But, Francis!
not.
Prithee, no more: thou dost talk nothing to me.
I bear a charmed life, which must not yield,
I prithee, tell me what thou thinkest of me.
Sent his poor queen to France, from whence she came,
O honey nurse, what news?
SCENE I. A hall in LEONATO'S house.
Who? that Petruchio came?
Ay, with a twink.
And to your quick-conceiving discontents
you, to your rights:
I had forgot; three months; you told me so.
Quick Cupid's post that comes so mannerly.
Well, well; as for him, he brought his disease
Let's to the altar: heralds, wait on us:
A shout within
And bow'd like bondmen, kissing Caesar's feet;
As 'twere in scorn of eyes, reflecting gems,
Is all unknown to me, my gracious lady.
All clinquant, all in gold, like heathen gods,
From John of Gaunt doth bring his pedigree,
And mark the musical confusion
Like or find fault; do as your pleasures are:
You should in all sense be much bound to him.
Ah, how much might the man deserve of me that would right her!
Not trusting to this halting legate here,
Wherein doth sit the dread and fear of kings;
Some harlot's spirit! my throat of war be turn'd,
A troop of horse with felt: I'll put 't in proof;
equivocal companion is this!
To FLORIZEL
And keep me on the side where still I am.
this that so seriously he does address himself unto?
town, by moonlight; there will we rehearse, for if
As may beseem some well-reputed page.
name of a Christian.
And may that soldier a mere recreant prove,
But I much marvel that your lordship, having
What fire is in mine ears? Can this be true?
Nay, more, the king's council are no good workmen.
Of what I have begun.
Retire thee; go where thou art billeted:
Take heed, take heed, for such die miserable.
Where it did mark, it took; from face to foot
love from any: in this, though I cannot be said to
O, how I love thee! how I dote on thee!
Of her confine: you should be ruled and led
Flourish of trumpets within
And paved with gold, the emperor thus desired,
Not very well, but I have met him oft;
Second Serving-man	And so will I.
Most royal sir,
Exit BAPTISTA
That is removed by a staff of France;
Enter the ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY, and the BISHOP of ELY
[Within]  Lead, boy: which way?
He vented them; most narrow measure lent me:
But to win time
Enter PAULINA, a Gentleman, and Attendants
I had rather be a canker in a hedge than a rose in
The steps of wrong, should move you to mew up
For sinking under them.
which is in the keeping of Paulina,--a piece many
Falls shrewdly to the purpose.
Accursed be that tongue that tells me so,
prince. But, Hal, I prithee, trouble me no more
No, coz, I rather weep.
A right fair mark, fair coz, is soonest hit.
Must die for love. 'Twas pretty, though plague,
O' the t'other side, the policy of those crafty
And dash'd the brains out, had I so sworn as you
How courtesy would seem to cover sin,
And nothing can we call our own but death
And we will fear no poison, which attends
I never saw a fellow worse bested,
Lays her full mess before you. Want! why want?
O brave Oliver,
necessary and meet me to-morrow night in Eastcheap;
Let them obey that know not how to rule;
How does the boy?
Thus have you breathed your curse against yourself.
The tide whereof is now. Good night, great Hector.
Sirrah, bring Barnardine hither.
Which have for long run by the hideous law,
Sir, a word ere you go;
Menenius, you are known well enough too.
Sink in the trial. Comes his army on?
Who are at hand, triumphantly display'd,
Your temples burned in their cement, and
As honour, love, obedience, troops of friends,
Therefore thy threatening colours now wind up;
Pointing to POLONIUS
Or piteous they will look, like drowned mice.
not by favour. Our king, being ready to leap out of
I'll bring you to him.
For thou dost fear the soft and tender fork
This is the pent-house under which Lorenzo
'Faith, I intend so.
By favours several which they did bestow.
Look in a glass, and call thy image so:
or staggering take this basket on your shoulders:
Did to his majesty, his mother and his lady
For I have given here my soul's consent
And so he thinks, and is no less apparent
Which makes the silver rivers drown their shores,
Enter ADRIANA and LUCIANA
In the sweet pangs of it remember me;
Enter FLUELLEN and GOWER
What gold is this? what Adam dost thou mean?
Help, son! help, Signior Baptista!
Profaned, dishonour'd, and the third usurp'd.
Attended him on bridges, stood in lanes,
entertainment to Laertes before you fall to play.
brother, gain nothing under him but growth; for the
Thou dost thyself and all our Troy deceive.
How have I been behaved, that he might stick
Directly.
And bid thy ceremony give thee cure!
Fly, to revenge my death, if I be slain.
hope to come upon them in the heat of their division.
There is no tongue hath power to curse him right.
Husband, I'll dine above with you to-day
Exeunt
Go fetch him hither; let me look upon him.
A very reverent body; ay, such a one as a man may
Four of their lords I'll change for one of ours.
Hath with his forged letters,--damn'd Pisanio--
Ay, but the mustard is too hot a little.
Than any thou canst conjure up to-day;
As doth a ruler with unlawful oaths;
Stop there; I'll have her: she was mine, and not
Thou hast said well; for some of you there present
Here had the conquest fully been seal'd up,
I cannot tell: things must be as they may: men may
Now in the waist, the deck, in every cabin,
lost mutton, nothing for my labour.
To keep him safely till his day of trial.
Soft! and the impressure her Lucrece, with which she
But shall be render'd to your public laws
The pendent world; or to be worse than worst
say me nay: pauca verba. Away! the gentles are at
None wed the second but who kill'd the first.
And blown with restless violence round about
That vow a long and weary pilgrimage;
Prepare you, generals:
as to play the coward with thy indenture and show it
And therefore, setting all this chat aside,
There is no malice in this burning coal;
In recompense whereof he hath married her.
As heartily as he is glad he hath him.
Might but redeem the passage of your age!
My Lord of Somerset, at my request,
Made promise to the doctor. Now, thus it rests:
O heavens! 'be true' again!
You do advance your cunning more and more.
Doing annoyance to the treacherous feet
I will kneel to him.
Here is the guess of their true strength and forces
Doubt it not, worthy lord.
Lying with simple shells. O Lychorida,
Return, return, and make thy love amends.
be ready at the farthest by five of the clock. See
And, I'll warrant her, fun of game.
How far is't call'd to Forres? What are these
Alas, Malvolio, this is not my writing,
utters them as he had eaten ballads and all men's
and delivered to the king her father'--
And this neglection of degree it is
Worthy his youth and nobleness of birth.
Alas! he is betray'd and I undone.
Prison, my lord!
Put me to some impatience: though I lose
And blow them at the moon: O, 'tis most sweet,
Do not throw from you: and you, my lords, farewell:
With the most noble blood of all this world.
Enter LEONTES, CLEOMENES, DION, PAULINA, and Servants
every one of these letters are in my name. Soft!
That you have many enemies, that know not
And, in this rage, with some great kinsman's bone,
As we will ours, against these saucy walls;
I bring consuming sorrow to thine age.
To do upon respect such violent outrage:
You think of him too much.
Then, Warwick, thus: our sister shall be Edward's;
For grief that they are past recovery:
Edmund, I hear that you have shown your father
Well, you'll still be too forward.
Cleanse the stuff'd bosom of that perilous stuff
Accursed if the fault be proved in them,--
myself. There's mine; beg another of thy daughters.
Madam, my lord is gone, for ever gone.
Where's Alexas?
DIANA appears to PERICLES as in a vision
lieutenant tonight watches on the court of
Come, and get thee a sword, though made of a lath;
Gave thee no instance why thou shouldst do treason,
for your favour, sir, why, give God thanks, and make
Welcome hither:
Well then I know thee: what shall I know of thee?
Ask him upon his oath, if he does think
Brutus, bay not me;
Bias and thwart, not answering the aim,
Unto an enemy's triumph.
they not malefactors?
country than one voluptuously surfeit out of action.
I' the virtue of your daughter: one being dead,
A thing divine, for nothing natural
But in what nature?
can be filled.
For thy conceit is soaking, will draw in
Question it, Horatio.
Fleance his son, that keeps him company,
That my revengeful services may prove
Than thou wast worthy her.
puppy; one that I saved from drowning, when three or
Sir, your honour cannot come to that yet.
Unless good counsel may the cause remove.
What he his heart should make
that writ it had played Pyramus and hanged himself
How much an ill word may empoison liking.
I cannot give you less.
narrow for your mind.
Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide;
Look here, I throw my infamy at thee
My age was never tainted with such shame.
The time is fair again.
when they will not give a doit to relieve a lame
Thou then wouldst kill me: do't; the time is come:
Rich only in large hurts. All those for this?
before him.
Ho, by your leave!
Starve-lackey the rapier and dagger man, and young
A poor unfortunate beggar.
He has it now, and by his looks methink
incarnal; and, in my conscience, my conscience is
These words, like daggers, enter in mine ears;
And we'll strive to please you every day.
When went there by an age, since the great flood,
Marry, heaven forbid!
Was ever woman in this humour won?
Fie, fie, my brother!
[To KING RICHARD III]
The queen being absent, 'tis a needful fitness
That hath thrown down so many enemies,
Child Rowland to the dark tower came,
Enter BANQUO, and FLEANCE bearing a torch before him
They have their nourishment?
Is he pardon'd; and, for your lovely sake,
That in the captain's but a choleric word,
And left thee there; where thou didst vent thy groans
Pluck out his poor old eyes; nor thy fierce sister
Grumio, my horse.
Authority so weighty.
Our horses!
At this odd-even and dull watch o' the night,
Her enemies' ranks,--I must withdraw and weep
Will you go see the order of the course?
ANTIPHOLUS
We will do it.
Yet they are not join'd: where yond pine
Neither the king, nor he that loves him best,
Might I but live to see thee in my touch,
Than those that have more cunning to be strange.
A rising sigh he wisheth you in heaven.
To let me be partaker.
friends, if we should ne'er have need of 'em? they
how much he is unworthy so good a lady.
And loves to grant, reprieve him from the wrath
I thought, by your readiness in the office, you had
of Nobody.
Fixing it only here; should I, damn'd then,
I do, sir.
O God, she comes!
With them, upon her knees, her humble self;
God, the best maker of all marriages,
This is the quondam king; let's seize upon him.
will teach you how to humour your cousin, that she
Let York be regent; I will yield to him.
Do not believe him. O, behold this ring,
She's impudent, my lord,
I am the last that will last keep his oath.
Edge, sting, or operation, I am safe:
Is not by much so wholesome-profitable
One who, to put thee from thy heaviness,
No honourable trust. I have done ill;
I wish ye sport.
I drink to the general joy o' the whole table,
Give me some music; music, moody food
Madam, my lord your father would speak with you.
And take his thanks that yet hath nothing else.
And bids you, in the bowels of the Lord,
Open their congeal'd mouths and bleed afresh!
For me and my possessions she esteems not.
Whither away, Sir John Fastolfe, in such haste?
And make rough winter everlastingly.
Take leave and part; for you must part forthwith.
'Twas bravely done, if you bethink you of it.
It is so, indeed; he is no less than a stuffed man:
Till Birnam wood remove to Dunsinane,
Fenton had her; I will do what I can for them all
Villain, thou liest; for even her very words
Bring you the maid, you shall not lack a priest.
Assuredly the thing is to be sold:
Sir, I think
The bird of wonder dies, the maiden phoenix,
A thing stuck on with oaths upon your finger
And make my wars on you: look to't: come on;
Are we not brothers?
If she'ld do the deed of darkness, thou wouldst say.
say on: he's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he
They embrace
To prove him tyrant this reason may suffice,
My lord, stand back, and let the coffin pass.
'Tis wondrous heavy. Wrench it open straight:
Here at the palace I will rest awhile.
The sight of me is odious in their eyes;
At that that I have kill'd, my lord; a fly.
Ay, sir; there are a crew of wretched souls
Appear not like a guest.
I mean, in perjured witness, than your master,
False to his bed! What is it to be false?
Where be these warders, that they wait not here?
[Aside]  Pray to the devils; the gods have given us over.
Of outward order: this we came not to,
Re-enter MARIA, with SIR TOBY BELCH and FABIAN
His fellowship i' the cause against your city,
I'll hence to London on a serious matter:
Do not you love him, madam?
But now mischance hath trod my title down,
Ah, good Demetrius, wilt thou give him me?
be a follower, but now you are a leader. Whether
O, now I would they had changed voices too!
In a poor isle and all of us ourselves
Pins, wooden pricks, nails, sprigs of rosemary;
Within whose circuit is Elysium
down together, I plucked this glove from his helm:
As sure a card as ever won the set;
What is it ye would see?
And if he were, he came into the world
I give to both your speeches, which were such
And in the witness of his proper ear,
Enter SHYLOCK
Nay, there is some comfort in the news, some
That thou depart'st hence safe,
I'll have the cudgel hallowed and hung o'er the
Nor all the drowsy syrups of the world,
Nor should thy prowess want praise and esteem,
'Tis well thou art not fish; if thou hadst, thou
'Tis past enduring.
must to the watch.
remembrance, be at accord.
are amazed; but this shall absolutely resolve you.
perpendicular,--
between me and Ford's wife?
By heaven, I will,
No more a soldier: bruised pieces, go;
Exeunt
sir, such answer as I can make, you shall command;
Our messenger Chatillon is arrived!
morning for France. The duke hath offered him
What shall become of me?
The borrow'd glories that by gift of heaven,
Sir Valentine, your father's in good health:
His love sincere, his thoughts immaculate,
with the finger of my substance: if he take her,
Believe it, Page; he speaks sense.
if peradventure this be true. Go you and tell her of it.
Till it fly out and show them princes born.
So, get thee gone; good night Ate eyes do itch;
In craving your opinion of my title,
Daunt all your hopes: madam, he comforts you
Tell her, I hold as giddily as fortune;
'Tis not so much worth; but I hope I was perfect: I
Mine honour's ensigns humbled at thy feet.
a man. For Bardolph, he is white-livered and
Not like the fruit of such a goodly tree.
Exit
I cannot blame him: at my nativity
Caesar and Lepidus have made wars upon Pompey.
De nails, de arm, de ilbow.
Before we hear him, of some things of weight
Imperious Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
And balms applied to, you, yet dare I never
To enter our Rome gates: i' the people's name,
'Tis true; for you are over boots in love,
Finger of birth-strangled babe
[Aside]	Praise in departing.
Why this same strict and most observant watch
Great Duke of Lancaster, I come to thee
Although they want the use of tongue, a kind
Let Paris bleed; 'tis but a scar to scorn;
Why should you fear? is not your city strong?
Exit Provost. ISABELLA comes forward
Thy eye Jove's lightning bears, thy voice his dreadful thunder,
You have broken
An honour! were not I thine only nurse,
No, we detest such vile base practises.
A quarrel, ho, already! what's the matter?
And henceforward all things shall be in common.
The benefit of his blest beams, remaining
Not to deny me, and to pardon me.
And, when thou wed'st, let sorrow haunt thy bed;
What hath he said?
For with long travel I am stiff and weary.
de nails, de arma, de bilbow.
over this stool and run away.
To the people; not by your own instruction,
Before the belching whale; then is he yonder,
If good, thou shamest the music of sweet news
Down with it flat; take the bridge quite away
How dost thou like this jewel, Apemantus?
Well, your old vice still; mistake the word. What
Thy truth and thy integrity is rooted
You do look, my son, in a moved sort,
For which thou whipp'st her. The usurer hangs the cozener.
grace, I hope: that were a trick indeed! but
We have noted it. Call her before us; for
Gentle, hear me:
Well, thou dost best.
Octavius, then take him to follow thee,
Of my petition.
Our part therein we banish with yourselves--
Waste it for you, like taper-light.
for ever perfect.
Exit, guarded
SCENE II. Capulet's orchard.
Takes a sword, and runs at him behind
Women are made to bear, and so are you.
Although I did admit it as a motive
Hail to thee, worthy Timon, and to all
I'll trust to your conditions: be whores still;
Should I lie, madam?
But ever puny whipster gets my sword:
Exit
[Kneeling]  Pardon, sweet father.
Our knocking has awaked him; here he comes.
To undeck the pompous body of a king;
Produce their bodies, be they alive or dead:
Draws, and is charmed from moving
If Saturnine advance the Queen of Goths,
His present and your pains we thank you for:
A little witness my obedience: look!
my daughter.
I know his lordship is but merry with me;
Doth from my senses take all feeling else
if you pardon, we will mend:
Hath with the king's blood stain'd the king's own land.
Is smooth'd by that below: the learned pate
To those whose dealings have deserved the place,
Or they so suffering: then on good ground we fear,
My knowing, Timon has been this lord's father,
See how the morning opes her golden gates,
Edward Plantagenet, why art thou dead?
Things done, undone: but, if he be at hand,
And 'tis no marvel he is so humorous.
owl and the cuckoo? It should have followed in the
and down here, and I will sing, that they shall hear
We are not here. That you should here repent you,
The neighs of horse to tell of her approach
As fire drives out fire, so pity pity--
Pay him six thousand, and deface the bond;
The worst is death, and death will have his day.
Ha! I have said. Be gone. What!
To whisper and conspire against my youth?
This after me, when I have writ my name
That for a trifle that was bought with blood
crammed with grain; make edicts for usury, to
With a most false effect; and I the truer,
Your hand; a covenant: we will have these things set
Enter PERICLES, at one door, with all his train;  CLEON and DIONYZA, at the other. CLEON shows  PERICLES the tomb; whereat PERICLES makes  lamentation, puts on sackcloth, and in a mighty passion departs. Then exeunt CLEON and DIONYZA
gown; I am withered like an old apple-john. Well,
Tell me precisely of what complexion.
hose, and you, being in love, cannot see to put on your hose.
That it might go on wheels!
And there I am. Where is my Romeo?
Sit down with us: it ill befits thy state
All, if you will; for I myself am best
Not a relation for a breakfast nor
Faith, unless you play the honest Troyan, the poor
To KENT
Then, since the heavens have shaped my body so,
man; any strange beast there makes a man:
I will instruct my sorrows to be proud;
Flies may do this, but I from this must fly:
Send to his brother; fetch that gallant hither;
Exit VALENTINE
Ungovern'd youth, to wail it in their age;
And care not who they sting in his revenge.
In such a one as, you consenting to't,
Began a fresh assault.
With most admired disorder.
The trumpets sound: stand close, the queen is coming.
If you do fight in safeguard of your wives,
When the sweet breath of flattery conquers strife.
Ay, so I thought. How many, as you guess?
To pay the saddler for my mistress' crupper?
Then let me see thy cloak:
went to span-counter for French crowns, I am content
Barns and garners never empty,
against my stomach. Hast any philosophy in thee, shepherd?
Their liberties; make them of no more voice
From whence shall Warwick cut the sea to France,
a fellow whipped for o'erdoing Termagant; it
follow worse, till the worst of all follow him
To walk where any honest man resort.
So princes their renowns if not respected.
My oracle, my prophet! My dear cousin,
He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
Not out of doors!
Must wear the print of his remembrance out,
SCENE II. The same. The Capitol.
This physic but prolongs thy sickly days.
Parted our fellowship--But, hark! a sail.
And I mine.
That life, a very rebel to my will,
prove a shrunk panel and, like green timber, warp, warp.
So many hours must I contemplate;
Or your own honour to contain the ring,
With fame, a name to Caius Marcius; these
world's end? I will go on the slightest errand now
woman with picking thy pocket! why, thou whoreson,
With Cain go wander through shades of night,
There comes an old man and his three sons,--
crown for a pitiful bald crown!
Troth, and your bum is the greatest thing about you;
I must be one of these same dumb wise men,
desires to speak with you.
Free from the bondage you are in, Messala:
You have now the good advantage of the night:
then am I the prisoner, and his bed my goal; from
You shall to the Tower.
As jewels lose their glory if neglected,
No, 'tis not so deep as a well, nor so wide as a
Proceed.
No more, I say.
So you walk softly and look sweetly and say nothing,
As, let 'em have their rights, they are ever forward--
Pawn'd with the other, for the poor rude world
Caesar said to me 'Darest thou, Cassius, now
I fell with curses.
And what you do, do it unfeignedly.
Were I chief lord of all this spacious world,
But say, Lucetta, now we are alone,
To this my fair beloved: therefore, I pray you,
If not at court,
occasion to kiss. Very good orators, when they are
Of such enchanting presence and discourse,
With rounds of waxen tapers on their heads,
censure of the which one must in your allowance
RICHARD
Endure our law: thou'rt dead.
He never can meet more mischance than come
seems to tie their friendship together will be the
Then there's life in't. Nay, if you get it, you
May the winds blow till they have waken'd death!
Behind our rock; and let it to the sea,
And now I find report a very liar;
What relish is in this? how runs the stream?
Enter KING LEAR, fantastically dressed with wild flowers
You will lose this wager, my lord.
teach me, I will execute, and it shall go hard but I
But the protractive trials of great Jove
Trimm'd like a younker prancing to his love!
Shall one day make the Duke of York a king.
As I am now unhappy; which is more
That, through the sight I bear in things to love,
My gracious lords, to add to your laments,
That lie within the mercy of your wit.
If I might in entreaties find success--
fellow of it.
But let him swear so, and he shall not stay,
Sir, you shall present before her the Nine Worthies.
Go with me to my chamber, and advise me.
Assemble we immediate council: Pompey
Exit
Have you any levers to lift me up again, being down?
Alas the day, I know not! There is no woman's gown
That doth sustain my house; you take my life
Enter Host and BARDOLPH
This jest is dry to me. Fair gentle sweet,
oath before this honourable assembly, she kicked the
Why, i' faith, methinks she's too low for a high
voluntary: no man is beaten voluntary: Ajax was
Do you desire?
Exeunt Launcelot and Old Gobbo
Sirrah carrier, what time do you mean to come to London?
The little number of your doubtful friends.
I pray thee, stay.
Hear me with patience but to speak a word.
Where I will walk till thou return to me.
He wrings at some distress.
That Geffrey was thy elder brother born,
With vile participation: not an eye
SCENE I. A room in a castle.
Whom I most hated living, thou hast made me,
This we prescribe, though no physician;
Marry, it is your brother's right hand.
Madam, I was not old sir Robert's son:
ACT IV
SCENE I. PETRUCHIO'S country house.
Will give her sadness very little cure.
Thy wit, that ornament to shape and love,
Show me how, good father.
And even with such-like valour men hang and drown
humility over the black gown of a big heart. I am
For 'twas that hand that gave away my heart.
That would be rid of such an enemy;
So clear in his great office, that his virtues
The queen of earthly queens: she's noble born;
He doth; for he did bid Antonius
Some dear friend dead; else nothing in the world
For well I wot ye blaze to burn them out
O Hal, I prithee, give me leave to breathe awhile.
Enter BRANDON, a Sergeant-at-arms before him, and two or three of the Guard
And trust no agent; for beauty is a witch
Thunder. Enter the three Witches meeting HECATE
Mowbray, impartial are our eyes and ears:
How many years a mortal man may live.
An honest mind and plain, he must speak truth!
Madam, we'll dance.
Call forth the holy father.
your lordship. You are most hot and furious when you win.
Within this bosom never enter'd yet
God and our good cause fight upon our side;
ACT V
Pardon me, Caius Cassius:
shall be encountered with a man as good as himself:
Till then farewell, sir: she must needs go in;
I got them in my country's service, when
O, 'tis foul in her.
Who once a day with his embossed froth
good favour you have, but that you have a hanging
Say, ay; and of a boy.
Lo, here upon thy cheek the stain doth sit
Or we'll burst them open, if that you come not quickly.
Allow obedience, if yourselves are old,
pleasure but in passion, not in words only, but in
hath a third at Mexico, a fourth for England, and
subjection.
Say I do speak with her, my lord, what then?
found; or, if it were, it would neither serve for
I would I knew his mind.
Now, music, sound, and sing your solemn hymn.
For which I wait for money.
Yet one thing more, good Blunt, before thou go'st,
Enter SUFFOLK in conference with KING HENRY VI, GLOUCESTER and EXETER
As of a father: for let the world take note,
me, that of this I may speak more. If our father
Attend us through the city.
Look to my house. I am right loath to go:
That welcome wrongs; unto bad causes swear
evening. Lord, I could not endure a husband with a
Then saw you not his face?
Turning his face to the dew-dropping south.
Your colt's tooth is not cast yet.
Or for men's sake, the authors of these women,
manifest. For my brother, I think he holds you
of us, I pray!
Better than he have worn Vulcan's badge.
[Aside]  Nay, then, I have an eye of you.--If you
I kiss the instrument of their pleasures.
'Gainst the Pannonians and Dalmatians,
And then down falls again.
Freeze, freeze, thou bitter sky,
Enter FLAVIUS, MARULLUS, and certain Commoners
in honour come off again.
Why, that's my fortune too; therefore I'll stay.
And all her husbandry doth lie on heaps,
stare him out of his wits; I will awe him with my
That ever said I hearken'd for your death.
What! look upon my brother: both your pardons,
Will these turtles be gone?
Excellent, i' faith; of the chameleon's dish: I eat
The which hath fire in darkness, none in light:
RICHARD
Adieu, adieu, adieu.
Resolved. resolved.
Spent more in her defence. But, worthy Hector,
As 'twere to banish their affects with him.
Intended for great Theseus' nuptial-day.
Gives her fame which never dies.
To use as you think needful of the man.
What, with Lysander?
Your needful counsel to our business,
Quoth who?
ne'er flatter thee. O you gods, what a number of
Nor wish'd to hold my peace.
As fast lock'd up in sleep as guiltless labour
There's nothing in this world can make me joy:
'Item: She is too liberal.'
Ran fearfully among the trembling reeds,
bound with oak. I tell thee, daughter, I sprang not
Adventure to be banished myself:
Villain, I have done thy mother.
In any summer-house in Christendom.
That knew'st the very bottom of my soul,
The queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet.
If that same demon that hath gull'd thee thus
in's forehead.
The traces of the smallest spider's web,
'Twas you that kill'd young Rutland, was it not?
And, as I further have to understand,
Enter ROMEO
Nor this I have not, brother, so denied,
Thou makest thy bloody pillow? Or who was he
But that my master is abused:
Who saw the sun to-day?
Else shall you not have any hand at all
Spies of the Volsces
This was a judgment on me; that my kingdom,
My lord, here stays without
I say, a moving grove.
Leave this faint puling and lament as I do,
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
A poor physician's daughter, thou dislikest
The labour of each knight in his device.
O pardonnez moi!
Enter DIONYZA and LEONINE
And so shall you,
To pray for them that have done scathe to us.
bringings-forth, and he shall appear to the
What is that curt'sy worth? or those doves' eyes,
My favour here begins to warp. Not speak?
I muse my Lord of Gloucester is not come:
And awful rule and right supremacy;
Enter MIRANDA; and PROSPERO at a distance, unseen
Exit
Listen, but speak not to't.
that are fools, let them use their talents.
Father, 'tis thus: yourself and all the world,
Breathe foul contagious darkness in the air.
extravagancy. But I perceive in you so excellent a
My noble lord, from Eastcheap.
Armies of pestilence; and they shall strike
From him I have express commandment
Faith, Sir John,'tis more than time that I were
Come, thou tortoise! when?
Re-enter PUCK
An if I fly, I am not Talbot's son:
More after our commandment than as guided
Under that's above me.
Where you and Douglas and our powers at once,
open't. What's within, boy?
Do you question me, as an honest man should do, for
Thrice-noble Suffolk, 'tis resolutely spoke.
I will hold friends with you, lady.
look you, is both alike. There is a river in
Enter Servant
But by particular consent proceeded
The fore-end of my time. But up to the mountains!
How will he scorn! how will he spend his wit!
I'll send the fool to Ajax and desire him
But think you, Helen,
Bounteous madam,
For none would strike a stroke in his revenge.
I'll go watch.
promise of his age, doing, in the figure of a lamb,
'True is it, my incorporate friends,' quoth he,
Exeunt Guard
Of the part of England.
A dead march. Exeunt, bearing off the dead bodies; after which a peal of ordnance is shot off
And dare not speak their knowledge. Antony
l'envoy, no l'envoy; no salve, sir, but a plantain!
Madam, he's well.
That we shall hardly in our ages see
Might we but have that happiness, my lord, that you
Singe my white head! And thou, all-shaking thunder,
Who loves another best.
Why 'Heart's ease?'
Ay, he: he offered to cut a caper at the
Our sacks shall be a mean to sack the city,
The wren goes to 't, and the small gilded fly
Amen, say we: we will be witnesses.
With purple falchion, painted to the hilt
Moreover, if you please, a niece of mine
Their mercy at the price of one fair word;
It was my folly; if industriously
You do yet taste
Cornets. Enter CORIOLANUS, MENENIUS, all the Gentry, COMINIUS, TITUS LARTIUS, and other Senators
My word and promise to the emperor,
Must be digested, give a favour from you
She will a handmaid be to his desires,
If it prove lawful prize, he's made for ever.
Your father was ever virtuous; and holy men at their
Then, Clifford, were thy heart as hard as steel,
For I, too fond, might have prevented this.
SCENE VIII. Another part of the field.
These people at our back.
Re-enter Provost
Thy knee bussing the stones--for in such business
Hath got the voice in hell for excellence:
Is so from word to word; and then you cannot,
Besides, I met Lord Bigot and Lord Salisbury,
But even his mother shall uncharge the practise
Let not this wasp outlive, us both to sting.
Sink in the ground? I thought it would have mounted.
with the gallows and what with poverty, I am
No, to my cabin.
you, Cassio? is he not a most profane and liberal
All love the womb that their first being bred,
moved my lord on his behalf, and hope all will be well.
That have been so bedazzled with the sun
Most just and heavy causes make oppose.
Flourish of cornets. Enter the KING of France, with letters, and divers Attendants
Here have you seen a mighty king
And Cassio kill'd!
Please ye we may contrive this afternoon,
Then, afterwards, to order well the state,
And to that end I shortly mind to leave you.
Two things are to be done:
borne me on his back a thousand times; and now, how
him as this of Kent's banishment.
And we are women's men.
I will not bandy with thee word for word,
Out of the host; I must attend mine office,
That by no means I may discover them
Both sides are even: here I'll sit i' the midst:
Nor shall not, while I have a stump.
Lay hold upon him, Priam, hold him fast:
With leave, Bassanio: I am half yourself,
This third, dull lead, with warning all as blunt,
Princes and counties! Surely, a princely testimony,
storms and tempests than almanacs can report: this
would 'twere done!
Have made you finish.
Whereto we are bound? alack, or we must lose
I was the next by birth and parentage;
I will praise an eel with the same praise.
Enter ORLANDO and ADAM, meeting
For he was great of heart.
Here comes the rogue.
Poor queen! so that thy state might be no worse,
By wondering how thou took'st it.
strength: if you saw yourself with your eyes or
she-Mercury.
but fortune. Coragio, bully-monster, coragio!
But we in silence hold this virtue well,
There is a mutiny in's mind. This morning
And leave me here in wretchedness behind ye?
shamed that was never gracious; if killed, but one
As matter whole you have not to make it with,
Revenge his foul and most unnatural murder.
By so much shall I falsify men's hopes;
Of him, sir.
To tell the passion of my sovereign's heart;
that alphabetical position portend? If I could make
Of my kind uncle, that I know will give;
But was not this nigh shore?
ISABELLA is carried off guarded; and MARIANA comes forward
But let him from my thoughts. What think you, coz,
I understand a fury in your words.
As I with sudden and extemporal speech
You are to blame,
it in a kind of jollity.
'Twixt these extremes at all.
We are undone, lady, we are undone!
good night, good night.
No barricado for a belly; know't;
Go you with me, uncle of Exeter.
I'll meddle nor make no more i' the matter.
fool no where but in's own house. Farewell.
Some private speech with you.
When I do name him, let it be thy part
The best way is to venge my Gloucester's death.
Call 'em; let me see 'em.
A good l'envoy, ending in the goose: would you
I am in the favour of Margaret, the waiting
when you come into your closet, you'll question this
Have strain'd to appear thus: if one jot beyond
that runs lolling up and down to hide his bauble in a hole.
Pour down thy weather: how goes all in France?
As I remember, Henry the Sixth
Giving a letter
An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope!
Longer, longer.
Whose club kill'd Cerberus, that three-headed canis;
Curses, not loud but deep, mouth-honour, breath,
If we be not, show us the hand of God
that is certain; and of great expedition and
In deepest consequence.
That's Christian care enough: for living murmurers
Besides, the seeing these effects will be
Enter ROMEO and BALTHASAR, with a torch, mattock,  and c
Embowell'd will I see thee by and by:
O, that the gods
And a good lady, and a wise and virtuous
Mine honour into lust, to take away
To have their balmy slumbers waked with strife.
Is it even so? then I defy you, stars!
Why then, 'tis good to be a post.
Plead you to me, fair dame? I know you not:
Give thee thy hire and send thy soul to hell,
he esteems himself happy that he hath fallen into
I am content; so the maiden cities you talk of may
How were I then uplifted! but, alas!
Discover where thy mistress is at once,
Well could I curse away a winter's night,
An hour but married, Tybalt murdered,
But who comes here?
Nor what is mine shall never do thee good:
On fair ground
I grow to you, and our parting is a tortured body.
Thou art one o' the false ones. Now I think on thee,
Nay, in the body of this fleshly land,
For if the Jew do cut but deep enough,
Enter DECIUS BRUTUS
But none can drive him from the envious plea
Than Julius Caesar or bright--
Trim gallants, full of courtship and of state.
To stride a limit.
Forces pass
If it be not for some purpose of import,
What was he that you followed with your sword? What
SCENE I. The same.
Whether, if you yield not to your father's choice,
Of an invincible unconquer'd spirit!
Takes off his false beard
Enter seven or eight Citizens
Have, as I do remember, done me wrong:
on, have them still. O, my knave, how does my old lady?
Perchance till after Theseus' wedding-day.
Exit
Here, master doctor, in perplexity and doubtful dilemma.
Foul whisperings are abroad: unnatural deeds
To wrong'd Othello's service! Let him command,
Come, my fair Cordelia.
I'll swear upon that bottle to be thy true subject;
Our hearts you see not; they are pitiful;
Twin-born with greatness, subject to the breath
Hath yet the deputy sent my brother's pardon?
Finger'd their packet, and in fine withdrew
And have not they suffered? Yes, I warrant;
Let us take the law of our sides; let them begin.
Exit
Doth flourish the deceit. Come, let us go:
Set me where you stand.
I know not the contents; but, as I guess
in tears! The great dignity that his valour hath
For none but Samsons and Goliases
so good a continuer. But keep your way, i' God's
Yet,--
If he for gold will give us any food:
Who have--as who have not, that their great stars
engines for my life.
If ever any grudge were lodged between us;
less reason. Let us be conjunctive in our revenge
And shows the ragged entrails of the pit:
What's to come is still unsure:
Yet better thus, and known to be contemn'd,
There's time enough for that;
Alas, you know not: I must tell you then:
Re-enter MACBETH and LENNOX, with ROSS
This chain you had of me; can you deny it?
Upon my party, I'ld revolt to make
If thou retire, the Dauphin, well appointed,
choose but fall by pailfuls. What have we
Against the Moor: for, I do know, the state,
My Lord of York, was not one Doctor Pace
Such doubts, as false coin, from it. The king loves you;
Be calm, be calm.
But when the blast of war blows in our ears,
And he supposes me travell'd to Poland;
That can such sweet use make of what they hate,
Alarum. Enter SUFFOLK with MARGARET in his hand
She whom thou gavest to me to be my wife,
This is Othello's ancient, as I take it.
Must now confess, if they have any goodness,
Ajax is grown self-will'd, and bears his head
Shall stand sore charged for the wasteful vengeance
be made parchment? that parchment, being scribbled
And I shall show you peace and fair-faced league;
I came yonder at Eton to marry Mistress Anne Page,
How say you to a fat tripe finely broil'd?
The mariners say how thou hast disposed
Dally not with the gods, but get thee gone.
You have it from his own deliverance.
SCENE IV. Country near Milford-Haven.
Shall in despite enforce a watery eye.
sun-burning, that never looks in his glass for love
Fly not; stand stiff: ambition's debt is paid.
clodpole. But, sir, I will deliver his challenge by
That thus you do exclaim you'll go with him?
being well-advised.
our wills are gardeners: so that if we will plant
Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy,--
Farewell till then: I will go lose myself
Enter MARDIAN
Forsooth, took on him as a conjurer,
I pardon thee thy life before thou ask it:
So much of bad already hath possess'd them.
The pleasant'st angling is to see the fish
soon moody to be moved.
grey iniquity, that father ruffian, that vanity in
With miry slime left on them by a flood?
Truly, I am so glad you have nobody here.
Yes, faith, and all his lords; the Duke of Milan
Nay, ask me if I can refrain from love;
What in the world should make me now deceive,
May be prevented now. The princes, France and Burgundy,
Out, ye rogue! shall I be your ostler?
No, Pompey.
Who is my principal?
By being once false for ever to be true
Than Bargulus the strong Illyrian pirate.
Signior Love.
Die, die, Lavinia, and thy shame with thee;
My half-supp'd sword, that frankly would have fed,
As dice are to be wish'd by one that fixes
The like allayment could I give my grief.
There were so many, whom she may accuse.
Of France and England, whose very shores look pale
That you may know you shall not want, one word.
Give me your hand, Bassanio: fare you well!
I could not do withal; then I'll repent,
That ever ear received: which in recounting
And for alliance sake, declare the cause
Can be retentive to the strength of spirit;
There yours, Lord Scroop of Masham; and, sir knight,
Why?
SCENE II. Orleans. Within the town.
And thou that smiledst at good Duke Humphrey's death,
Antony, Antony! Help, Charmian, help, Iras, help;
Say 'Thus did Banquo.'
But yet I'll bury thee: thou'lt go, strong thief,
Which my love makes religion to obey,
Harmoniously charmingly. May I be bold
the grund for it; ay, or go to death; and ay'll pay
So I am, to let him live.
That danger shall seem sport, and I will go.
Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutes,
Sir, how comes't that you
Cousin of Buckingham, a word with you.
He is too good and fair for death and me:
More than a lodged hate and a certain loathing
But get thee back; my soul is too much charged
Have I here touch'd Sicilia and from him
Wounds like a leaden sword.
That has such people in't!
No, first let's reason with him.
Peace; no more. Adieu.
His fortunes I will weep; and, 'twixt each groan
And process of this time, you can report,
And Ethiopes of their sweet complexion crack.
Fare you well; your suit is cold.
Thou dost then wrong me, as that slaughterer doth
Pluck the young sucking cubs from the she-bear,
Alack,
With her her niece, the Lady Blanch of Spain;
a good turn.
My Lord of Winchester, you are a little,
I'll not remember you of my own lord,
As if he pluck'd up kisses by the roots
Came more and more and fought on part and part,
Exit
That birds would sing and think it were not night.
That since the common men are now in action
Give the word.
But yet thou art my flesh, my blood, my daughter;
That did but lately foil the sinewy Charles;
[Aside]  That such an ass should owe them.
The love I bore your queen--lo, fool again!--
Clarence hath not another day to live:
First, good Peter Quince, say what the play treats
Wise things seem foolish and rich things but poor.
My lord Sebastian,
To Brecknock, while my fearful head is on!
O, contain yourself
To give you over at this first encounter,
Not so big as a round little worm
Esteem him as a lamb, being compared
The sun not yet thy sighs from heaven clears,
As, by a lower but loving likelihood,
but a provoking merit, set a-work by a reprovable
And mere instinct of love and loyalty,
From Antony win Cleopatra: promise,
weeping tears 'Wear these for my sake.' We that are
And own no other function: each your doing,
truth, I can bear them witness; and virtuous; 'tis
Were most impertinent.
Well, and how?
Being barber'd ten times o'er, goes to the feast,
The pretty-vaulting sea refused to drown me,
lady. Tell me your mind: I am a messenger.
The princess dowager? how goes her business?
Exeunt
But keep that countenance still. My husband's hand!
Do light upon her, she shall bring him that
Caesar did write for him to come to Rome.
Our baleful news, and at each word's deliverance
And here my mistress. Would that he were gone!
Or any he the proudest of thy sort.
Sir, for my thoughts, you have them ill to friend
They laboured to plant the rightful heir,
Or hitherwards intended speedily,
Since every Jack became a gentleman
'The pig,' quoth I, 'is burn'd;' 'My gold!' quoth he:
The prodigal Christian. Jessica, my girl,
Then will Ajax lack matter, if he have lost his argument.
That she is dead. Nurses are not the fates,
I know their complot is to have my life,
Justice design the victor's chivalry.
As Hector's leisure and your bounties shall
That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream;
To prove upon thy heart, whereto I speak,
Requires a fitter place.
If you seek
And welcome to our shearing!
Let us not leave him out.
Which art a lion and a king of beasts?
What is your parentage?
Marry, that he had received a thousand ducats of
As who should say 'Old lad, I am thine own.'
Fortune makes Nature's natural the cutter-off of
O sir, you are too sure an augurer;
In ivory coffers I have stuff'd my crowns;
Some better than his value, on the moment
That high All-Seer that I dallied with
Hark you! they come this way.
Bid a sick man in sadness make his will:
And not against his friends; his noble hand
Jove send her
Which was to please. Now I want
Let me hear no more.
Do as I bid you do.
You conjure from the breast of civil peace
I make as little doubt, as you do conscience
And barbarism itself have pitied him.
Is not to reason of the deed, but do it.
Why, then mine honesty shall be my dower;
Him and his innocent child: for which foul deed
Griefs of mine own lie heavy in my breast,
Then into limits could I bind my woes:
Speak, prince of Ithaca; and be't of less expect
I would give it every foot to have this face;
No care of yours it is; you know 'tis ours.
He striketh him
The lights burn blue. It is now dead midnight.
Prove you that any man with me conversed
This is a riddling merchant for the nonce;
And thou shalt find it, Dauphin, do not doubt.
Go, go, my servant, take thou Troilus' horse;
And do it with all thy heart.
Or made it not mine too? Or which of your friends
What, and wouldst climb a tree?
Hasten his musters and conduct his powers:
and yet am ready to famish! These five days have I
How durst you, villains, bring it from the dresser,
No, thy words are too precious to be cast away upon
Can we, with manners, ask what was the difference?
What is your gracious pleasure?
For never henceforth shall I joy again,
To bring me to him?
We would purge the land of these drones, that rob
O young John Talbot! I did send for thee
The truth you speak doth lack some gentleness
Enter OXFORD and SOMERSET
Where shall it find a harbour in the earth?
As now we meet. You have deceived our trust,
Is dearly bought; 'tis mine and I will have it.
My lord, I neither can nor will deny
We were elected theirs, Marcius is worthy
Ere I can tell thee what thou shouldst do there.
I was promised them against the feast; but they come
stray, for entering his fee-simple without leave.
'Say, the firm Roman to great Egypt sends
O boy, thy father gave thee life too soon,
And I will use him for my minstrelsy.
But sup them well and look unto them all:
With horsemen, that make to him on the spur;
Could trammel up the consequence, and catch
That cursed Chiron and Demetrius
So to enforce or qualify the laws
And being once subdued in armed tail,
Her and her fortunes: none would look on her,
Or as the snake roll'd in a flowering bank,
Tush, man, abodements must not now affright us:
So I were not his sister. Can't no other,
Cousins, I hope the days are near at hand
Thus pour the stars down plagues for perjury.
mastership?
Be Alcibiades your plague, you his,
I am betroth'd: and art thou not ashamed
And I will provoke him to't, or let him wag.
Come, go with me into mine armoury;
If thou spy'st any, run and bring me word;
That I to your assistance do make love,
Our isle be made a nourish of salt tears,
have decreed not to sing in my cage. If I had my
Go to the rude ribs of that ancient castle;
keep his house; and I wash, wring, brew, bake,
Seduced the pitch and height of all his thoughts
Could you not have told him
Thou know'st the mask of night is on my face,
What you have done--before our army hear me.
The king my father, sir, has drunk to you.
Patience once more, whiles our compact is urged:
I go, my lord, in heart desiring still
Like man new made.
You are welcome, sir: adieu.
at the brow.
Like Patience gazing on kings' graves, and smiling
Goodman Verges, sir, speaks a little off the
Leading the men of Herefordshire to fight
As will the rest, so willeth Winchester.
Sweet recreation barr'd, what doth ensue
Lucilius' Servant	Alas, my lord,-
A goodly person: he hath lost his fellows
For now the wind begins to blow;
May prove a beauteous flower when next we meet.
To make thee capable.
Your creatures, who by you have been restored:
Lady Beatrice, have you wept all this while?
I cannot speak
at me? No, do thy worst, blind Cupid! I'll not
For no less spoil than glory,--
have found in any part of Illyria. Will you walk
And whistles in his sound. Last scene of all,
What's the matter now?
The crow doth sing as sweetly as the lark,
Thy master is a wise and valiant Roman;
That may discover such integrity:
Ingratitude, more strong than traitors' arms,
Bid the players make haste.
So proud that Bolingbroke was on his back!
Why, then, let them alone till they are sober: if
Old Salisbury, shame to thy silver hair,
serve the world for no honest use; therefore you
He was quick mettle when he went to school.
Sennet. Enter KING HENRY VI, GLOUCESTER, and EXETER
I am so fraught with curious business that
Worst in this royal presence may I speak,
Who's there? Othello?
You have condemn'd and noted Lucius Pella
And you will rather show our general louts
A' bears the third part of the world, man; see'st
I am a poor fall'n man, unworthy now
Make soft thy trenchant sword; for those milk-paps,
By this I shall perceive the commons' mind,
SCENE V. A hall in Capulet's house.
And will not you maintain the thing you teach,
From thousand dangers; bid him bury it
cannot plead his estimation with you; he hath been a bawd.
Call home thy ancient thoughts from banishment
O undistinguish'd space of woman's will!
Men shut their doors against a setting sun.
duller than a great thaw; huddling jest upon jest
Of one not easily jealous, but being wrought
And so farewell, and fair be all thy hopes
A thing for me? it is a common thing--
Where is best place to make our battery next.
but twelve persons there; is this true?
Digging
No tearing, lady: I perceive you know it.
Thou'rt a tall fellow: hold thee that to drink.
She hath pursued conclusions infinite
Orpheus with his lute made trees,
What must the king do now? must he submit?
Where shall we go?
for yours.
That is not the duke's letter, sir; that is an
Ay, the best for the worst. But, sirrah, what say
Or else disdainfully, which shall shake him more
Your grace may do your pleasure.
mistress exceeds in goodness the hugeness of your
Give me some token for the surety of it.
Nobly doom'd!
And doth deserve a coronet of gold.
hundred years.
Or foison follow: the higher Nilus swells,
Exit
That he deserved the praise o' the world,
How I would think on him at certain hours
Re-enter EMILIA with IAGO
Ay, with five hundred, father, for a need:
You kiss by the book.
church! Company, villanous company, hath been the
And Suffolk's cloudy brow his stormy hate;
We'll higher to the mountains; there secure us.
Here have we war for war and blood for blood,
He did, my lord.
His own opinion was his law: i' the presence
Any bar, any cross, any impediment will be
With six Aufidiuses, or more, his tribe,
That hath so cowarded and chased your blood
Until this day, to scour it in the dust.
Re-enter GUIDERIUS, with CLOTEN'S head
How now, Roderigo!
There lives within the very flame of love
Commends the ingredients of our poison'd chalice
Come, sister, you shall be the priest and marry us.
And have you?
No scope of nature, no distemper'd day,
I thought to crush him in an equal force,
Directitude! what's that?
Better forbear till Proteus make return.
Death, desolation, ruin and decay:
go into this closet: he will not stay long.
Caesar, I go.
That thou shalt like an airy spirit go.
Your valiant Britons have their wishes in it.
It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
what a' will say.
Ay, such a pleasure as incaged birds
for your love, I would be loath to foil him, as I
Burn'd on the water: the poop was beaten gold;
Dismay not, princes, at this accident,
SCENE I. Venice. A street.
coil at home: it is proved my Lady Hero hath been
What plain proceeding is more plain than this?
As is a winged messenger of heaven
for your honest care: I will speak with you further anon.
And now there rests no other shift but this;
Discolour: and so Montjoy, fare you well.
These news I must confess are full of grief;
No, Caesar, we will answer on their charge.
I saw a smith stand with his hammer, thus,
I promised your grace a hunter's peal.
ANTIPHOLUS
And cannot live but to thy shame, unless
Be sacrificed, some hour before his time,
Rise, Titus, rise; my empress hath prevail'd.
That, though the truth of it stands off as gross
The sun will set before I shall discharge
Pray you, go, Master Page.
As Scythian Tomyris by Cyrus' death.
O, think upon the conquest of my father,
Who was it that thus cried? Why, worthy thane,
To do myself this reason and this right.
Were publicly enthroned: at the feet sat
Trimm'd up your praises with a princely tongue,
Sweet, now, silence!
Devesting them for bed; and then, but now--
Your brother he shall go along with me.
What cause, do you think, I have to swoon?
Ay, be so, good Touchstone.
I prithee, daughter, do not make me mad:
first stroke, I'll run him up to the hilts, as I am a soldier.
Tear my bright hair and scratch my praised cheeks,
Then give me leave, for losers will have leave
From my remembrance clearly banish'd his.
From the casque to the cushion, but commanding peace
Farewell, my Hector, and my Troy's true hope.
speak to thee in drink but in tears, not in
There's no disjunction to be made, but by--
In faith, they are as true of heart as we.
And a half, sir.
That we do make our entrance several ways;
I will, my lord, so please his majesty.
Why tough senior? why tough senior?
wages followest thy master; thy master for wages
Being all descended to the labouring heart;
Or should, or should not, bar us in our claim:
And promise you calm seas, auspicious gales
For, sure, there's no converting of 'em: now
Exit GURNEY
A woman clad in armour chaseth them.
That do no work to-day!
rare carpenter? Come, in what key shall a man take
Good Captain Blunt, bear my good-night to him,
A trim exploit, a manly enterprise,
And find not her whom thou pursuest. Flow, flow,
To breathe this news; yet what I say is true.
Health to your lordships.
Enter PORTIA and NERISSA
Made emulous missions 'mongst the gods themselves
That nightly lie in those unproper beds
Re-enter others of the Watch, with FRIAR LAURENCE
[Kneeling]  Long live Queen Margaret, England's
Art not afeard?
And, clasping to the mast, endured a sea
I think, Camillo?
His horses go about.
What figure of us think you he will bear?
His accusations.
Against your vain assault.
O, 'tis brave wars!
Implore her, in my voice, that she make friends
A wonder, lady! lo, upon thy wish,
very epicure.
Neither;'tis a woman's fault.
Despite the bear-ward that protects the bear.
And fire-eyed fury be my conduct now!
Make it so known.
Is arming, weeping, cursing, vowing vengeance:
O this false soul of Egypt! this grave charm,--
in. The remembrance of her father never approaches
By our proceeding in hostility;
Great thanks, great Pompey.
have sent to thee, to receive the meed of
Such hope have all the line of John of Gaunt!
O, no more, no more!
Dost grant me, hedgehog? then, God grant me too
Thou gentle nymph, cherish thy forlorn swain!
modesty as cunning. I remember, one said there
Re-enter Officers with ISABELLA; and Provost with the DUKE VINCENTIO in his friar's habit
I prithee, beat thy drum, and get thee gone.
This?
Whom thou wert sworn to cherish and defend.
Dissemble not your hatred, swear your love.
How! have they denied him?
Here in our presence! dare you be so bold?
Heaven take my soul, and England keep my bones!
inch narrow to an ell broad!
TIMON comes from his cave, behind
That not another comfort like to this
Enter ESCALUS, Provost, and Officers with MISTRESS OVERDONE
Let all of his complexion choose me so.
down before their city Corioli; they nothing doubt
hence the child?
Whose rags shamed gilded arms, whose naked breast
The shadow or your face.
My lungs began to crow like chanticleer,
No, my good lord; it was by private message.
SCENE IV. The platform.
A prince call'd Hector,--Priam is his father,--
Why, mistress, sure my master is horn-mad.
Whilst I can shake my sword or hear the drum.
Betwixt two charming words, comes in my father
Hereafter, in a better world than this,
Methinks the truth should live from age to age,
Bear our hack'd targets like the men that owe them:
What kind of god art thou, that suffer'st more
In rank and not-to-be endured riots. Sir,
So; lift there.
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY VI, QUEEN MARGARET,  PRINCE EDWARD, CLIFFORD, and NORTHUMBERLAND, with drum and trumpets
The sole drift of my purpose doth extend
And hangs on Dian's temple: dear Valeria!
As your fair self, doth tune us otherwise:
To think but nobly of my grandmother:
Enter BERTRAM
'Tis sure enough, an you knew how.
Stubborn to justice, apt to accuse it, and
this other day, what should follow these eclipses.
Farewell, good Strato.
The salt in them is hot.
Shall chide your trespass and return your mock
Methinks a father
I'll do it in my shirt.
Where be the sacred vials thou shouldst fill
Like softest music to attending ears!
Exit
Why, these are very crotchets that he speaks;
You have me, rich; and I will never fail
I do not know if it be it or no.
lackey and under that habit play the knave with him.
That now I aim at.
Yonder comes a poet and a painter: the plague of
Now shall I see thy love: what motive may
As mines of India. Shall I tell you, cousin?
If they did kill thy husband, then be joyful
'Tis hatch'd and shall be so: Tranio, at once
That those whom you call'd fathers did beget you.
Exit CHARLES
She is thy very princess. Who is this?
A second time within these arms.
To an impatient child that hath new robes
In hateful practise. First, his integrity
Thy burning car never had scorch'd the earth!
He is our subject, Mowbray; so art thou:
He threw his wounded arm and kiss'd his lips;
Therefore, come back.
How! how!
And yet are on't? Live you? or are you aught
To prove him false that says I love thee not.
Let your indulgence set me free.
All viands that I eat do seem unsavoury.
I protest I love the duke as I love myself.
Madam.
Her father. I'll do something--
Alas, sweet aunt, I know not what you mean.
Are we undone? cast off? nothing remaining?
In thee thy mother dies, our household's name,
SCENE I. Florence. The DUKE's palace.
Because Love is blind. O, that you had mine eyes;
Of Mars's fiery steed. To other regions
I did not think the king so stored with friends.
The common voice, I see, is verified
This tyrant, whose sole name blisters our tongues,
Think not I love him, though I ask for him:
Which rare it is to do--most praised, most loved,
Only for his possessions are so huge,
And he beseech'd me to entreat your majesties
supplications to his lordship? Let me see them:
Whisper her ear and tell her, I and Ursula
Where is my lady?
Weak masters though ye be, I have bedimm'd
What fool is this?
Confined together
Why, he hath not been thrice in my company! What
Pompey.
Come, let's all take hands,
SCENE IX. The Roman camp.
tale. Have you writ down, that they are none?
I met the youthful lord at Laurence' cell;
Seeming and savour all the winter long:
And will for evermore be true to it.
Nurse, commend me to thy lady and mistress. I
Even at my gates, with ranks of foreign powers:
See to my house, left in the fearful guard
look you, and friendly communication; partly to
And his affections dark as Erebus:
I come, to learn how you have dealt for him;
And nothing of a man.
Come on, my lords, the better foot before:
As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
sound, upon my life, amounts not to fifteen thousand
That in civility thou seem'st so empty?
me.
There lives or dies, true to King Richard's throne,
A terrible and unavoided danger:
And set this unaccustom'd fight aside.
And groaning underneath this age's yoke,
Free from a stubborn opposite intent,
Should fear to seize thee: therefore be double damn'd:
And send forth us, to make their sorrow'd render,
His honour and myself are at the one,
out mine eyes with a ballad-maker's pen and hang me
My gracious lord, here is the bag of gold.
Their purposes toward Cyprus. Signior Montano,
Of a strange fever. Upon his mere request,
Exit
ungartered!
Ay.
By certain scales i' the pyramid; they know,
Enter, to his tent, KING RICHARD III, NORFOLK, RATCLIFF, CATESBY, and others
His eye against the moon: in most strange postures
It shall be done; I will arraign them straight.
Quite over-canopied with luscious woodbine,
there's no heed to be taken of them; if Caesar had
Enter a Herald
Their natures and preformed faculties
Brings in the champion Honour on my part,
And take our goodly aged men by the beards,
A way, if it take right, in spite of fortune
As are the swelling Adriatic seas:
True, Clifford; and that's Richard Duke of York.
Even so our houses and ourselves and children
SCENE I. The English camp at Agincourt.
Prodigious, and untimely brought to light,
Truly, a peck of provender: I could munch your good
From good descending?
You are a merry man, sir: fare you well.
Do not abuse me.
Nay, in all confidence, he's not for Rhodes.
Make way to lay them by their brethren.
It should seem, fellow, that thou hast not seen the
Enter HECTOR
For you, fair Hermia, look you arm yourself
Lucilius' Servant	Ha! is not that his steward muffled so?
The devil will shake her chain and fright us with it.
To thee the reed is as the oak:
Thou canst not strike it thus to make it still.
Why are our bodies soft and weak and smooth,
My boy shall fetch the scrivener presently.
'As by lot, God wot,'
Fall asleep, or hearing, die.
Sir Nicholas Gawsey hath for succor sent,
Exeunt
Rather to wonder at the things you hear
Exeunt
Pay him the due of honey-tongued Boyet.
Of Mantua.
Let four captains
And she, there dead, that Romeo's faithful wife:
For him was I exchanged and ransomed.
Soon fall to ruin,--your noble self,
This star of England: Fortune made his sword;
Art thou damn'd, Hubert.
What says she to my valour?
That York is most unmeet of any man.
I'll strike thee dead. Put up thy sword betime;
A space for further travel.
Now, you companion, I'll say an errand for you:
Look out o' the other side your monument;
We will yet do well.
Upon the wasted building, suddenly
May do a noble deed! he brings me liberty.
Third son to the third Edward King of England:
Ere you can say 'she's honest:' but be 't known,
are forgiven you, you're well to live. Gold! all gold!
This gallant pins the wenches on his sleeve;
By fixing it upon a fairer eye,
For this time, all the rest depart away:
To the ground, mistress.
Where did you leave him?
Provokes me to this threefold perjury;
to offend no man; and it is an offence to stay a
No doubt the murderous knife was dull and blunt
Blessed are clouds, to do as such clouds do!
Enter RATCLIFF; CATESBY following
To have her honour true than your suspicion,
Lies down and sleeps
Of thy former lady's eye:
Too bitter is thy jest.
The princess is the better Englishwoman. I' faith,
Abate the edge of traitors, gracious Lord,
Rugby, come to the court with me. By gar, if I have
Which love to all, of which thyself art one,
It seems his sleeps were hinder'd by thy railing,
And to that woman, when she has done most,
More plentiful than tools to do't, struck down
Am I so round with you as you with me,
And make the babbling gossip of the air
With eye-offending brine: all this to season
That both the worlds I give to negligence,
All this my sister is, or else should be.
And farewell goes out sighing. O, let not
As this I dream'd of?
And yet not so, for with a kiss 'twas made.
'She died by foul play.'
bones, their bones!
This I must do, or know not what to do:
saved, your honour untainted, the poor Mariana
Ay, and break it in your face, so he break it not behind.
What call you the carriages?
Again to sleep.
By flight I'll shun the danger which I fear.
Not so, my liege: this lodging likes me better,
Is loathsome in his own deliciousness
Thank you, good Pompey; and, in requital of your
To render them redoubted! Look on beauty,
Not Priamus and Hecuba on knees,
Into this city's bosom.
Why, then, let's on our way in silent sort:
Ay, my good lord; a son that well deserves
Sirrah, what's thy name?
O, that I knew thy heart; and knew the beast,
for missing your meetings and appointments.
I speak too loud.
our king the good Simonides.
Drinks to HORTENSIO
I know thy errand, I will go with thee:
give enlargement to the swain, bring him festinately
From the dead temples of this bloody wretch
O, 'tis a burthen, Cromwell, 'tis a burthen
If you give place to accidental evils.
In the dark backward and abysm of time?
Trot, like a servile footman, all day long,
That to the observer doth thy history
signior: fare you well.
there I'll sup. Farewell.
For more amazement. If you can behold it,
Makes me with heavy nothing faint and shrink.
No other harm but loss of such a lord.
For me?
Antonio shall become bound; well.
To Servant, giving a paper
I will none of your money.
Why, I will.
Fear and be slain; no worse can come to fight:
We shall hear more anon.
operation of your sun: so is your crocodile.
Doth watch Bianca's steps so narrowly,
I'll prove this truth with my three drops of blood.
It is a matter of small consequence,
It is too full o' the milk of human kindness
Is the king's ship; in the deep nook, where once
In the Duke of Gloucester's purse.
No, no, my lord.
I have lived in such dishonour, that the gods
Good fellows all,
One flourishing branch of his most royal root,
Whilst Dighton thus told on: 'We smothered
Am I the first that have been perjured so?
And waxen in their mirth and neeze and swear
Had I before known this young man his son,
We'll have dancing afterward.
Out of my sight, and never see me more!
Thou weep'st, and speak'st.
Enter HOTSPUR, WORCESTER, DOUGLAS, and VERNON
Is it true, think you?
not such a fool to think what I list, nor I list
Not I.
My lord, my answer is--to Lancaster;
Of all the gentry; for the most part such
There's fennel for you, and columbines: there's rue
Of that tongue's utterance, yet I know the sound:
That look too lofty in our commonwealth:
Say as you think, and speak it from your souls,
be sworn, but love may transform me to an oyster; but
And I from Mantua, for a gentleman,
Which he achieved by the minute, lost his favour.
Prophet may you be!
BISHOP
I am glad to see you.
them: the lord mayor craves aid of your honour from
Good, good.
The origin and commencement of his grief
You have put me now to such a part which never
we fought, I doubt we should have been too young for them.
Till we have brought Duke Humphrey in disgrace.
We know each other well.
Ready in gibes, quick-answer'd, saucy and
Come on then; down, and swear.
All dark and comfortless. Where's my son Edmund?
I did not think to be so sad to-night
Go tell this heavy message to the king.
How now, Meg!
Who hath abandoned her holy groves
Or does he walk? or is he on his horse?
Enter Keeper
Without a prompter. Where will you that I go
Fool's play, by heaven, Hector.
But yet, madam,--
O, she says nothing, sir, but weeps and weeps;
A most extracting frenzy of mine own
Give way there, and go on!
There is a sickness
Here we: and if to-morrow
He question'd me; amongst the rest, demanded
home: he has more cause to be proud. Where is he wounded?
Bring me a constant woman to her husband,
Till Birnam forest come to Dunsinane.
sometimes more feet than shoes, or such shoes as my
Sir, be patient:
Re-enter OLIVIA, with VIOLA
All these old witnesses--I cannot err--
Of modern seeming do prefer against him.
Only, my friend, I yet am unprovided
So tell your master.
[Aside]  The late queen's gentlewoman,
lost my crupper, with many things of worthy memory,
SCENE V. The same. A garden.
I should do so: you shall be miss'd at court,
Lose and neglect the creeping hours of time
Or lace for your cape,
You from the Polack wars, and you from England,
Clifford, ask mercy and obtain no grace.
To have his head.
In suffering thus thy brother to be slaughter'd,
Look to the lady; O, she's but o'erjoy'd.
There is means, madam:
Ta'en off by poison.
That hast such noble sense of thy friend's wrong!
die when thou wilt, if manhood, good manhood, be
'O, bless my brother!' Husband win, win brother,
O, how this discord doth afflict my soul!
That most pure spirit of sense, behold itself,
Give me a case to put my visage in:
Because in quarrel of the house of York
O, then the earth shook to see the heavens on fire,
The better part of ours are full of rest.
Enter CORIOLANUS, MENENIUS, and COMINIUS, with Senators and Patricians
And time, that takes survey of all the world,
On purpose trimm'd up for Semiramis.
Full weak to undertake our wars against
[Aside to DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS]  What does he mean?
Their wives have sense like them: they see and smell
The luck of Caesar, which the gods give men
My love till death, my humble thanks, my prayers;
The patch is kind enough, but a huge feeder;
To the Daughter of ANTIOCHUS
Nay, but who is it?
He has been known to commit outrages,
the bottom of the news is that our general is cut i'
Leonatus! a banished rascal; and he's another,
Here, father, take the shadow of this tree
Each word thou hast spoke hath weeded from my heart
I have no judgment in an honest face:
I am paid for't now.
If thou be'st slain and with no stroke of mine,
Against my king and nephew, virtuous Henry,
Say that you love me not, but say not so
Bind up your hairs.
Which, by their graces, I will keep.
If wishes would prevail with me,
I have been sometimes there.
On her kind nursery. Hence, and avoid my sight!
his demands to the point; only refer yourself to
carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy, very
Unless you will accompany me thither.
Enter LEONTES, HERMIONE, MAMILLIUS, POLIXENES, CAMILLO, and Attendants
the love of Juno, let's go.
Which the eye fears, when it is done, to see.
Mount, mount, my soul! thy seat is up on high;
Which promises royal peril. Trumpeters,
enrich the hand
the least syllable of thy addition.
He'll think anon it lives.
Storm still
Hold you still, I say;
Ay, the woman's maid of the house.
Go, Salisbury, and tell them all from me.
Drawing his sword
O, let me make the period to my curse!
My scars can witness, dumb although they are,
able to woo her in good English.
Instance, O instance! strong as heaven itself;
That you yet know not of: we'll see our husbands
Come, he hath hid himself among these trees,
Fair Beatrice, I thank you for your pains.
Exeunt
to the nurse and bid her still it.
O, he is old and blushes not at death.
Thou shalt not live to brag what we have offer'd.
Your worship in that sense may call him 'man.'
For many lives stand between me and home:
Among the high tides in the calendar?
O, not to-day, think not upon the fault
As Owen Glendower for an enemy.
But I am truest speaker you call'd me brother,
I'll bring him to you.
Russian bear and have their heads crushed like
Exit
You are disputing of your generals:
So should the murder'd look, and so should I,
And then end life when I end loyalty!
Go, say I sent thee forth to purchase honour
The gods defend her! Bear him hence awhile.
Two stars keep not their motion in one sphere;
Name not the god, thou boy of tears!
Peace!
To the Fool
See how I am bewitch'd; behold mine arm
SCENE I:
ACT IV
She I kill'd! I did so: but thou strikest me
As he was coming from this churchyard side.
O, know you yet, he doth it publicly,
You might have spoken a thousand things that would
seek not to alter me.
But in your daughter's womb I bury them:
Are at their beads, 'tis hard to draw them thence,
Pleads your fair usage; and to Diomed
Pardon me, dear Rosalind.
Do glue themselves in sociable grief,
'Item: She can wash and scour.'
Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS, and MARDIAN
She shall be married to this noble earl.
What is your name?
How!
Inferior to none but to his majesty:
Shall I bring thee on the way?
End in one purpose, and be all well borne
To say I have done no harm?
How far I am from the desire thereof.
Even now we housed him in the abbey here;
Fools had ne'er less wit in a year;
[Within]  My lord, my lord,--
The brightness of her cheek would shame those stars,
O my dear Silvia! Hapless Valentine!
The king rises.
But, with the motion of all elements,
And, in a word, for far behind his worth
will ensconce your rags, your cat-a-mountain
That of all things upon the earth he hated
Let him appear that's come from Antony.
And patient underbearing of his fortune,
But what linsey-woolsey hast thou to speak to us again?
It is the very error of the moon;
Which are so weak of courage and in judgment
Is bound in shallows and in miseries.
Of that we hold an idol more than he?
Like to my followers in prosperity,
Such is the lightness of you common men.
What dost thou then in prison?
Who chafes, who frets, or where conspirers are:
Let's follow the old earl, and get the Bedlam
Sir, I know that well enough.
But yet come not: you are a tame man, go!
Let it be so: and you, my noble prince,
Scoffing his state and grinning at his pomp,
Feed, and regard him not. Are you a man?
Putting on a red rose
They most must laugh. And why, sir, must they so?
seven dozen of Scots at a breakfast, washes his
more choler.
Sweet Desdemona! O sweet mistress, speak!
He did command me to call timely on him:
Their slimy jaws; and, as I draw them up,
Bravest at the last,
With contemplation and devout desires.
The verier wag o' the two?
bachelor; and by how much defence is better than no
Here is the Talbot: who would speak with him?
Enter OSRIC
With eyes as red as new-enkindled fire,
The brawns of Hercules: but his Jovial face
And witness of the malice and displeasure
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as before, CLAUDIO, and Provost
An you be mine, I'll give you to my friend;
I have a letter guessingly set down,
Stand, ho!
For this world frowns, and Edward's sun is clouded.
What is her burying grave that is her womb,
Is shiny; and they say we shall embattle
Question, my lords, no further of the case,
No? then I well perceive you all not nigh
But with the aid of use.
By two of their most reverend senate, greet thee:
Your naked infants spitted upon pikes,
So humbly take my leave.
Born in a tempest, when my mother died,
What answer, sir? when spake I such a word?
Not of this country, though my chance is now
Let's see your song. How now, minion!
You may think I love you not: let that appear
All books of love, see that at any hand;
My gracious sovereign, on the western coast
With Tarquin's ravishing strides, towards his design
And for your grace; and you, my noble lords.
A fellow almost damn'd in a fair wife;
It would control my dam's god, Setebos,
Think not I flatter, for I swear I do not--
There is none worthy,
Send thee by me, their tribune and their trust,
Woman its pretty self--into a waggish courage:
Against the wind a mile! You souls of geese,
When did she cross thee with a bitter word?
nearer to his reverence.
No, not I;
Varro's Servant	Hang him, he'll abuse us.
It were enough to fright the realm of France:
What are you, sir?
The most opportune place, the strong'st suggestion.
When my dimensions are as well compact,
God speed the parliament! who shall be the speaker?
A gentleman of mine I have dispatch'd
I'll not endure him.
Counter-cheque Quarrelsome: and so to the Lie
Re-enter Executioners, with a cord, irons,  and c
We must suggest the people in what hatred
But you, my lord, were glad to be employ'd,
Makes it take head from all indifferency,
To help thee curse that poisonous bunchback'd toad.
Here she lies, sir.
That task our thoughts, concerning us and France.
roast your goose.
Pardon and terms of love to all of you?
To knot and gender in! Turn thy complexion there,
No blown ambition doth our arms incite,
Dogs! cowards! dastards! I would ne'er have fled,
Enter OSWALD
A spleeny Lutheran; and not wholesome to
Younger than she are happy mothers made.
Robin Starveling, you must play Thisby's mother.
And he hath bought the cottage and the bounds
But thieves do lose it: steal no less for this
Eating a root
Do not I know thou wouldst?
I will lead them up and down:
Harm not yourself with your vexation
What merit's in that reason which denies
Let them be free, marry them to your heirs?
Exit COSTARD, running
me other than Lord Mortimer.
think so, which is another spur to my departure.
Knock there, and ask your heart what it doth know
His insolence can brook to be commanded
Stand by our Ajax: as you and Lord AEneas
Let him be sent for.
May be possessed with some store of crowns;
Why, this is the ring I gave to Julia.
Cursed be I that did so! All the charms
Away before: conduct me to the king;
Are in thy vessel: let me cut the cable;
My state was nothing, I should then have told you
At seventeen years many their fortunes seek;
To-morrow then I will expect your coming;
I speak not this as doubting any here
That have stood by and seen our wishes prosper,
Are you so hot? marry, come up, I trow;
lay knife aboard; but she, good soul, had as lief
Being entreated to it by your friend.
sweet knaves,
Shall you my son. You have me, have you not?
By revolution lowering, does become
[Aside]  Ay, by my faith, the field is honourable;
So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.
Lust is but a bloody fire,
A man of Claudio's years; his beard and head
under the dead moon-calf's gaberdine for fear of
In love the heavens themselves do guide the state;
are coming.
We shall be blest to do, if he remember
Ready, when time shall prompt them, to make road.
Why, right; you are i' the right;
The dust that did offend it.
Which dreads not yet their lives' destruction.
Look up; speak.
And consciences, that will not die in debt,
Thus is the shepherd beaten from thy side,
With strife to please you, day exceeding day:
That we have better men. But, hit or miss,
Fair Queen of England, worthy Margaret,
I fear I am attended by some spies.
And that's the wavering commons: for their love
Never did faithful subject more rejoice
one!
But with a noble fury and fair spirit,
Go tell the duke and 's wife I'ld speak with them,
Thy master thus with pleach'd arms, bending down
This scatter'd corn  into one mutual sheaf,
The ocean swells not so as Aaron storms.
No, no, forsooth; I dare not for my life.
Enter ANTIGONUS with a Child, and a Mariner
The beggar native honour.
You shall not go: one cannot speak a word,
I hope, sir, I will do as it shall become one that
Bar Harry England, that sweeps through our land
Exeunt ANTONIO and PANTHINO
Apollo's angry; and the heavens themselves
Yours, if you talk of tails: and so farewell.
Have you had quiet guard?
toasts-and-butter, with hearts in their bellies no
Ay, and allay this thy abortive pride;
Light, I say! light!
And as for you, that love to be protected
[Reads]  'Thou comest to the lady Olivia, and in my
As if that whatsoever god who leads him
Even as our days do grow!
Montague's men from the wall, and thrust his maids
Who, raging with thy tears, and they with them,
Ay, sir, that soaks up the king's countenance, his
Yet fortune cannot recompense me better
Upon thy certainty and confidence
And gives to every power a double power,
Would I had never come from thence, nor you Thither!
He looks well on't.
'Let our reciprocal vows be remembered. You have
Now will it best avail your majesty
Then be it so: heavens keep old Bedford safe!
Exeunt
Magni Dominator poli,
Thou seest, the heavens, as troubled with man's act,
O prudent discipline! From north to south:
That, being captain of the watch to-night,
That would depopulate the city and
When holy Harry died, and my sweet son.
Every one lets forth his sprite,
Is the chair empty? is the sword unsway'd?
Good sister, wrong me not, nor wrong yourself,
What a wretched and peevish fellow is this king of
dauphin of France? Be it known unto thee by these
That, by confessing them, the souls of men
Resolved to carry her: let her in fine consent,
I so much thirst to see.
Enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS
Which, wash'd away, shall scour my shame with it:
That cropp'd the golden prime of this sweet prince,
You promised knighthood to our forward son:
And pray the Roman gods confound you both!
Ne aught escapen but himself;
Pardon me, lords, 'tis the first time that ever
Reads
MUTIUS is put into the tomb
O, thou hast damnable iteration and art indeed able
nor pibble pabble in Pompey's camp; I warrant you,
Is apoplex'd; for madness would not err,
Moved with remorse of these outrageous broils,
Forbear me.
Using no other weapon but his name.
This is the tune of our catch, played by the picture
What I have spoke, or thou canst worse devise.
Sir, sir, impatience hath his privilege.
And that's a good root.
And deny himself for Jove,
swearing rascals, that stale old mouse-eaten dry
'Brutus, thou sleep'st: awake, and see thyself.
To answer from our home; the several messengers
The French ambassador upon that instant
Falls in
Marcus, unknit that sorrow-wreathen knot:
Shapes faults that are not--that your wisdom yet,
Your mother too:
My dagger in my mouth. Say what thou art,
Good master, be content.
before, these weird sisters saluted me, and referred
An age of poverty; from which lingering penance
whom you should have been a pander: over and above
I come to fetch you to the senate-house.
Tell them there I have gold; look, so I have.
The princess comes to hunt here in the park,
That this is true, father, behold his blood.
And you too, Somerset and Montague,
Scorn'dst our brain's flow and those our
You suffer for a pad conscience: your wife is as
Enter PAGE, SHALLOW, SLENDER, Host, SIR HUGH EVANS, DOCTOR CAIUS, and RUGBY
On whom I may confer what I have got:
No son of mine succeeding. If 't be so,
I am afraid my daughter will run mad,
Able to ravish any dull conceit:
Cried 'Cursed fate that gave thee to the Moor!'
If I be traitor or unjustly fight!
O my poor brother! and so perchance may he be.
What think'st thou, then, of Stanley? what will he?
I thank my beauty, I am fair that shoot,
My life stands in the level of your dreams,
Be angry, and dispatch. O, couldst thou speak,
Enter DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO
advantaged, and the corrupt deputy scaled. The maid
What's your will?
to him again, and he's yours.
And from each other look thou lead them thus,
Before the tag return? whose rage doth rend
love no man in good earnest; nor no further in sport
between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves,
Men are but gilded loam or painted clay.
Away, I say, and bring them hither straight.
It is so: and you may, some of you, thank love for
I never gave it him.
All senses to that sense did make their repair,
Alack the day, she's dead, she's dead, she's dead!
Dear Duff, I prithee, contradict thyself,
Say to me, when sawest thou the Prince Florizel, my
By my troth, a good song.
And true subjection everlastingly.
Enter EROS
Cold death aside, and with the other sends
SCENE I. Before the castle.
I now go toward him; therefore follow me
That have revolted wives, the tenth of mankind
Exeunt all except HAMLET
You told us of some suit; what is't, Laertes?
But what thou art, God, thou, and I do know;
Tell thee, with speechless tongues and semblance pale,
Yet, were there but this single plot to lose,
Much heat and him. I'll sconce me even here.
MARK ANTONY dies
My gracious lord, I come but for mine own.
the morning; and so, good morrow, Peto.
Now, by my holidame, here comes Katharina!
Yet neither pleasure's art can joy my spirits,
Our dance of custom round about the oak
Have at you for a bitter jest or two!
you, coz; marry, this, coz: there is, as 'twere, a
Must my sweet Nan present the Fairy Queen;
Why, very well then; you must not think then that I am drunk.
Ay, now methinks I hear great Warwick speak:
Enter DON PEDRO and CLAUDIO
How is this justified?
commiseration on thy heroical vassal! The
lead, and as heavy too: God keep lead out of me! I
of that quirk.
May hold him from the Capitol to-day.
Thus must I from the smoke into the smother;
And even that power which gave me first my oath
transform me to a piece of cheese!
The cloudy messenger turns me his back,
This neighbour air, and let rich music's tongue
Sir, we were talking that our garments seem now
Lo, what befell! he threw his eye aside,
If he be guilty, as 'tis published.
I shall do well:
A troubled mind drave me to walk abroad;
What would you with her, if that I be she?
Enter CLAUDIO
'Tis well that I get it so. But, Launce, how sayest
Rejoice, you men of Angiers, ring your bells:
And bring our emperor gently in thy hand,
speaks brave words, swears brave oaths and breaks
To keep me from a most unholy match,
I am a wise fellow, and, which is more, an officer,
solemnized: if the interim be but a se'nnight,
Poor ignorant baubles!-- upon our terrible seas,
Here to this devil, to deliver you.
Exit
he keeps the wind!
--Command silence.
Of their dispatch.
He is a traitor; let him to the Tower,
May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest,
We can: my royal liege,
In Orsino's bosom.
Let's to bed, knight. Thou hadst need send for
And tells me 'tis a thing impossible
Hundreds he sent to hell, and none durst stand him;
Perchance I will be there as soon as you.
crab. Thou canst tell why one's nose stands i'
How that might change his nature, there's the question.
All forsworn, all naught, all dissemblers.
All put on their masks
Burnt up those logs that you are enjoin'd to pile!
I should be guiltier than my guiltiness,
Fie, lords! that you, being supreme magistrates,
That I have longed long to re-deliver;
SCENE V. Pentapolis. A room in the palace.
And have forsworn you with Hortensio.
I am thinking, brother, of a prediction I read
Stand you! You have land enough of your own: but
Wither goes Vaux so fast? what news, I prithee?
Thorny hedgehogs, be not seen;
Thy fault our law calls death; but the kind prince,
Give me some drink; and bid the apothecary
Thou art no father nor no friend of mine.
May token to the future our past deeds.
The third possessor; ay, he was the third--
So will ye, I am sure, that you love me.
Widow! a pox o' that! How came that widow in?
As you have done my truth. If he know
Thou, nature, art my goddess; to thy law
That thou with licence of free foot hast caught,
you for yourselves?
For what had he to do to chide at me?
If thou hatest curses,
O spirit of love! how quick and fresh art thou,
Inform on that.
Do so, my friends. See them well entertain'd.
Till he hath found a time to pay us home:
Sure, we thank you.
He is a kinsman to the Montague;
Even to their ships.
You are the king King Edward hath deposed;
Will suddenly break forth. Sir, fare you well:
No,
That till the father rid his hands of her,
O master, that you could!
That most may claim this argument for ours?
BISHOP
Bloody constraint; for if you hide the crown
How now, sirrah! how goes the world with thee?
I'll do't; but it dislikes me.
As like enough it will--I'ld have it copied:
And your fair show shall suck away their souls,
The doubt is that he will seduce the rest.
I could not stay behind you: my desire,
Can draw him but to answer thee in aught,
My silence and my cloudy melancholy,
To bring again these foolish runaways.
Would you, my lord, aught with the general?
you may be won by some other sort than your father's
Speak of Mortimer!
'Tis like enough, for I stay dinner there.
Enter an old Athenian
That there he dropp'd it for a special purpose
To suckle fools and chronicle small beer.
You never had a servant to whose trust
And not the very king. I have two boys
Whose howl's his watch, thus with his stealthy pace.
Exeunt
bombard that would shed his liquor. If it
perfectly I love her; and that is good English.
You know, Helen,
Come home to me, and I will wait for you.
The sweetness of affiance! Show men dutiful?
I partly guess; for I have loved ere now.
You do appear before them: if they shall chance,
To try my fortune. By this scimitar
'Tis beauty that doth oft make women proud;
that your younger brother Orlando hath a disposition
Queen o'er myself: and even now, but now,
With powerful policy strengthen themselves,
idiot, patch!
are as mad as he.
And whirl along with thee about the globe.
Of the ravin'd salt-sea shark,
Exeunt SIR TOBY BELCH, SIR ANDREW, and FABIAN
Is breach of all. I am ill, but your being by me
We are all undone, unless
And death's pale flag is not advanced there.
Come, come, be every one officious
From which we would not have you warp. Call hither,
Good counsel, marry: learn it, learn it, marquess.
you, coach after coach, letter after letter, gift
Thou showest the naked pathway to thy life,
But, come what may, I do adore thee so,
Exeunt LUCIUS, QUINTUS, and MARTIUS
The gods begin to mock me. I, that now
To die upon the hand I love so well.
For which I do discharge you of your office:
We must supplant those rough rug-headed kerns,
Come when the king doth to my lady come;
So, now bring them in, for I'll play the cook,
privy marks I had about me, as, the mark of my
For never was a story of more woe
SCENE I. Antechamber in LEONTES' palace.
Play fast and loose with faith? so jest with heaven,
Ill met by moonlight, proud Titania.
No, a fair lord calf.
We prove this very hour.
[Aside to BERTRAM]  O, for the love of laughter,
that I should quickly have a new father.
But only hope:
Why, no, I say, distrustful recreants!
Sir,
For Warwick was a bug that fear'd us all.
Bring me the satin coffer: lay the babe
Rome's emperor, and nephew, break the parle;
Or bide the mortal fortune of the field?
Learn him forbearance from so foul a wrong.
As we'll direct her how 'tis best to bear it.
'Tis the god Hercules, whom Antony loved,
To prove the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray,
Never believe it:
have no strength in measure, yet a reasonable
Like motes and shadows see them move awhile;
she hath often dreamed of unhappiness and waked
Say not 'treasonous.'
Never speak: we charge you let us obey you to go with us.
As that same ague which hath made you lean.
At many leisures I proposed.
it loathes.
Of our great action: therefore shall he die,
But thou mistakest me much to think I do:
Had he done so, himself had borne the crown,
Left by the fatal and neglected English
Exeunt
Thy master in bleeding: say his name, good friend.
Well then, once in my days I'll be a madcap.
My proud heart sues, and prompts my tongue to speak.
Run away with the cozeners; for so soon as I came
We see the very wreck that we must suffer;
Good cousin, be advised; stir not tonight.
For Hector in his blaze of wrath subscribes
with't, keep it close: home, home, the next way.
I prithee, speak to me as to thy thinkings,
Sir, your company is fairer than honest. Rest you well.
behavior. We are not to stay all together, but to
Was to them as a painting: now this masque
What, will the line stretch out to the crack of doom?
He only lived but till he was a man;
Shall be engraved the sack of Orleans,
Traitors have never other company.
And in conclusion she shall watch all night:
I would they were in Tiber! What the vengeance!
reason, we must stay the time.
Of nature be corrupted through affection,
That ever eye with sight made heart lament!
'Tis spoken well.
Appointed to direct these fair designs.
Thank you, good lord archbishop:
We would spend it in some words upon that business,
Even now about it! I will pardon you.
Record it with your high and worthy deeds:
What moves Ajax thus to bay at him?
If sore be sore, then L to sore makes fifty sores
More, more, I prithee, more.
That my master, being scribe, to himself should write
A second night of such sweet shortness which
Dropping upon thy head.
down the prince's officer coxcomb. Come, bind them.
My father's bears more toward the market-place;
A very beadle to a humorous sigh;
it his that finds it.
This Caesar was a tyrant.
A pillow for his head:
And make a conquest of unhappy me,
Make servants of their betters.
And live you yet?
Come here to-day.
Through which the lovers, Pyramus and Thisby,
My dagger, little cousin? with all my heart.
discretion, and I will right myself like a soldier.
With such an agony, he sweat extremely,
Exit a Knight
I dreamt my master and another fought,
What rub or what impediment there is,
proud, revengeful, ambitious, with more offences at
All these are servants to deceitful men.
Does't not go well? Cassio hath beaten thee.
Most serpent-like, upon the very heart:
Go where you will, the king shall be commanded;
One rubb'd his elbow thus, and fleer'd and swore
praise him.
I wish you all joy of the worm.
And in the imitation of these twain--
late, she did praise my leg being cross-gartered;
That's all one: you shall play it in a mask, and
Created only to calumniate.
As is a dead man's nose: but I do see't and feel't
Have done to this.
Yet I have faced it with a card of ten.
I have no great devotion to the deed;
Basely insinuate and send us gifts.
Giving no ground unto the house of York,
Dies ere the weary sun set in the west.
As bombast and as lining to the time:
In the unlawful purpose.
You must leave this.
Their lips were four red roses on a stalk,
Why, then, it is like, if there come a hot June and
That never knew but better, is some burden:
These words are razors to my wounded heart.
No prodigal.
What do you mean, my lord?
Even to the next willow, about your own business,
And, not dispraising whom we praised,--therein
That churchman bears a bounteous mind indeed,
And once fought with him: he was a soldier good;
Enter CARDINAL OF WINCHESTER in Cardinal's habit, a Legate and two Ambassadors
These earthly godfathers of heaven's lights
thee in grace and the other brings thee out.
We have deserved it.
For the commodity that strangers have
And drink it off; and, if you had the strength
I'll have them sleep on cushions in my tent.
For Edward will defend the town and thee,
Cancel all grudge, repeal thee home again,
fantasticoes; these new tuners of accents! 'By Jesu,
Rapine and Murder; therefore called so,
The ground of your ill-will, and so remove it.
To stale 't a little more.
The obligation of our blood forbids
Why, she was wash'd and cut and trimm'd, and 'twas
For thee to murder: for my daughters, Richard,
Beshrew the witch! with venomous wights she stays
Many a widow's husband grovelling lies,
I should lament thy miserable state.
The forms of things unknown, the poet's pen
How much I was a braggart. When I told you
And then I'll set upon him.
To whom this wreath of victory I give,
The wretched, bloody, and usurping boar,
How should this grow?
For, by my soul, I'll ne'er acknowledge thee,
part to intermingle with them. But for which of my
bring in--God shield us!--a lion among ladies, is a
With all the admired beauties of Verona:
May not fly forth of Egypt. Hast thou affections?
More stern and bloody than the Centaurs' feast.
To make a dulcet and a heavenly sound;
Then whither goest? say, whither?
your ring; which, in my opinion, o'ervalues it
More that I may call men than you, good friend,
thinks a man always going to bed, and says, 'God
No, Sir John; You do not know me, Sir John. I know
Nor the furious winter's rages;
'Tis past the hour, sir, that Sir Hugh promised to meet.
Which I will win from France, or else be slain,
Show you sweet Caesar's wounds, poor poor dumb mouths,
Goes all decorum.
'Tis not needed yet.
By Cressid's rule: rather think this not Cressid.
I long till Edward fall by war's mischance,
The dearest ring in Venice will I give you,
For yet his honour never heard a play--
Exit POLONIUS with all the Players but the First
Nor his qualities.
Shall we go send them dinners and fresh suits
The king's attorney on the contrary
SCENE V. The same. A street near the gate.
Therefore, brave conquerors,--for so you are,
shall beat out my brains with billets: I will not
restitution. As I am a true spirit, welcome!
And this way have you well expounded it.
Exeunt
I cannot choose but laugh, to think how she tickled
I had a Rutland too, thou holp'st to kill him.
You, minion, are too saucy.
Throws up another skull
To kill the king at Oxford.
And if I die, no soul shall pity me:
What tidings can you tell me of my lord?
The enemy increaseth every day;
And let not women's weapons, water-drops,
Which I would fain shut out. If it should prove
By ought that I can speak in his dispraise,
Of a poor worm. Thy best of rest is sleep,
And so our scene must to the battle fly;
In name of lendings for your highness' soldiers,
We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings: I ha't.
not, man; here's no harm intended to thee.
And now, young lords, was't not a happy star
My life thou shalt command, but not my shame:
SCENE V. A public road.
Even to the note o' the king, or I'll fall in them.
Now, fair one, does your business follow us?
Do hiss me into madness.
Doubt and suspect, alas, are placed too late:
Having vainly fear'd too little. Away with him!
Do execution on my flesh and blood.
Good morrow to your worship.
And yet died too! I, in mine own woe charm'd,
[Looking into the cave]
It is war's prize to take all vantages;
Of this vile politician, Bolingbroke.
What prodigal portion have I spent, that I should
That ever spider twisted from her womb
I will not shame myself to give you this.
How much is it?
I know thee not: thy name?
upon your traitorous father are not fit for your
York, I commend this kind submission:
A station like the herald Mercury
Their aunt I am in law, in love their mother:
O gentle villain, do not turn away!
I am not a woman, to be touched with so many
For never shall you lie by Portia's side
Would he do so, I'ld beg your precious mistress,
Master, a mercatante, or a pedant,
Howe'er you come to know it, answer me:
My men should call me 'lord:' I am your goodman.
Then is Caesar and he for ever knit together.
No contraries hold more antipathy
[Aside to CLARENCE]  Silence!
Ambassador to the emperor, you made bold
So much his friend, ay, his unfeigned friend,
and afeard to speak! run away for shame, Alisander.
Without indurance, further.
ANTIPHOLUS
With fresh suspicions? No; to be once in doubt
Then all afire with me: the king's son, Ferdinand,
There's matter in't indeed, if he be angry.
For mine own ends; indeed, to gain the popedom,
Thus ornament is but the guiled shore
Why, do you think he will make no deed at all of
Ambitious York doth level at thy crown,
Well said, Master Parson.
Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
Great Timon, noble, worthy, royal Timon!
you are so crossed.
knave it is: I hope your majesty is pear me
She's fled unto that peasant Valentine;
But that the earthy and cold hand of death
You'll go with us?
Such were our faults, or then we thought them none.
Not as a groom: there's some of ye, I see,
Cannot distaste the goodness of a quarrel
Loved as my father, as my master follow'd,
To inherit such a haven: but first of all,
Nor how it may concern my modesty,
what villany soe'er I bid thee do, to perform it
sorry that you are paid too much; purse and brain
Lord bless me! I pray God! for I am never able to
Now could I, Casca, name to thee a man
Tug for the time to come. This you may know
But in a sieve I'll thither sail,
By fair persuasions mix'd with sugar'd words
I came yonder from a great supper: the prince your
'Tis better thee without than he within.
If you do wrongfully seize Hereford's rights,
I ever saw so noble.
And he himself not present? O, forfend it, God,
The Ottomites, reverend and gracious,
That shall express my true love's fasting pain.
I know no answer.
Exit
heart wept blood. Who was most marble there changed
eat like wolves and fight like devils.
[Within]                 Come back: what mean you?
Thy scarlet robes as a child's bearing-cloth
Enter GOWER
A bird that will revenge upon you all:
SCENE III. Bosworth Field.
whose lands and revenues enrich the new duke;
heart-strings.
They sparkle still the right Promethean fire;
Who to Philippi here consorted us:
at the door: shall I let them in?
With sweet rehearsal of my morning's dream.
Excellent.
If I would sell my horse, and buy twenty more
Good meat, sir, is common; that every churl affords.
your father's tenant, these fourscore years.
That very frankly he confess'd his treasons,
Vherefore vill you not meet-a me?
If circumstances lead me, I will find
The rack dislimns, and makes it indistinct,
Look'd wondering each at other.
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN
Re-enter GUIDERIUS
One that will play the devil, sir, with you,
Alack the day, I know you not, young gentleman:
No further service, doctor,
will blow it to pieces, they are so pitifully sodden.
Is more than one,
Your presence needs must puzzle Antony;
Nay, follow'd him, till he had melted from
Servilius! you are kindly met, sir. Fare thee well:
The king hath on him such a countenance
He is gone, he is gone,
Cure this great breach in his abused nature!
As for another secret close intent,
O, ay, make up that: he is now at a cold scent.
with thee. Go thy ways: let my horses be well
Who cannot be new built, nor has no friends,
A man of great authority in France,
No Achilles with him.
Exeunt
Of government the properties to unfold,
Enter a Gentleman
Some twenty of them fought in this black strife,
They did entreat me to acquaint her of it;
Good friends, go in, and taste some wine with me;
But, for the bloody napkin?
'Sblood!--
Of what degree soever, with his brother.
Ha, art thou there?
Ay, and I'll give them him without a fee.
kind of men, the less you meddle or make with them,
Assumed this age; indeed a banish'd man;
Promises boys hereafter. Sir, your queen
give me so much of your time in exchange of it, as
Let me sit heavy on thy soul to-morrow!
these rebels, they offend none but the virtuous: I
To her let us garlands bring.
Her widowhood, be it that she survive me,
What stay had we but Clarence? and he's gone.
To share with me in glory any more:
I know his eye doth homage otherwhere,
And I, in such a desperate bay of death,
'Tis a lucky day, boy, and we'll do good deeds on't.
Wrinkles Apollo's, and makes stale the morning.
SCENE II. London. YORK'S garden.
Enter NORFOLK at one door; at the other, BUCKINGHAM and ABERGAVENNY
I dare assure you, sir, 'tis almost two;
That I, forsooth, am stern, and love them not?
Thy spirit walks abroad and turns our swords
The third son, Duke of Clarence, from whose line
For to strange sores strangely they strain the cure.
Hath Romeo slain himself? say thou but 'I,'
O bloody period!
That labouring art can never ransom nature
Now show yourselves men; 'tis for liberty.
Which a dismiss'd offence would after gall;
till he hath pawned his horses to mine host of the Garter.
Exit
'The hobby-horse is forgot.'
England, impatient of your just demands,
I thought you had been willing to resign.
The cuckoo then, on every tree,
With his mouth full of news.
But being charged, we will be still by land,
SCENE I. Before OLIVIA's house.
And make them skirr away, as swift as stones
Exit BOULT
And wash away thy country's stained spots.
For, hearing this, I must perforce compound
His child is like to her, fair as you are:
Know ye Don Antonio, your countryman?
A knot you are of damned blood-suckers!
And, thus unbraced, Casca, as you see,
Is prisoner to the bishop here, at whose hands
Of drops that sacred pity hath engender'd:
And since your coming hither have done enough
Pardon, my lord; I will not show my face
Warwick may live to be the best of all.
Could but be brought to know our ends are honest,
on the score for sheer ale, score me up for the
But trust me, gentleman, I'll prove more true
With others whom the rigor of our state
To bear your griefs yourself and leave me out;
The sun that sear'd the wings of my sweet boy
Her delicate cheek: it seem'd she was a queen
In nightly revels and new jollity.
My Lord of York will still be cross in talk:
Look, with what courteous action
Anon!
[Aside]  For all this same, I'll hide me hereabout:
So he is. My lord that's gone made himself much
I say they shall not come.
Which, as the dearest issue of his practise,
Appear thou in the likeness of a sigh:
Why, so: you have made good work!
Past and to come, that you do change this purpose,
Alive and dead, and for their brethren slain
You sent me to the bay, sir, for a bark.
Tarry, Petruchio, I must go with thee,
Despite of death that lives upon my grave,
well-a-day, we could scarce help ourselves.
Lay't so to his charge:
One sand another
How, my lord!
Thou sayest true; they're too unwholesome, o'
Tell me, how fares our loving mother?
His arched brows, his hawking eye, his curls,
mine honour thou hadst it not.
I think I should have told your grace's tale.
She is dead, belike?
armed and gone ere ye came to Ilium? Helen was not
Arthur ta'en prisoner? divers dear friends slain?
soldier to cut his prisoner's throat. O, 'tis a
Are every one a woe, a sore complaint
O, in this love, you love your child so ill,
I thank thee for't: my shipwreck now's no ill,
Than that mix'd in his cheek; 'twas just the difference
What canst thou say but will perplex thee more,
That quicken even with blowing. O thou weed,
Ay, as the glasses where they view themselves;
Exit
Pyramus, but Bottom the weaver: this will put them
His banners sable, trimm'd with rich expense;
This sandy plot is plain; guide, if thou canst
am a peppercorn, a brewer's horse: the inside of a
She hath spied him already with those sweet eyes.
His confessor, who fed him every minute
Ill spirit, I would hold more talk with thee.
He shall be none;
Was,--were he evil used, he would outgo
But on this day let seamen fear no wreck;
With winds that sailors rail at.
To see what this child does, and praise my Maker.
Now, good Camillo;
Was never yet for sleep.
What mean these fellows? Know they not Achilles?
Made demonstrable here in Cyprus to him,
You must prepare your bosom for his knife.
In noise so rude against me?
Of it own colour too.
bawd, in way of good service, and art nothing but
Here an alarum again: and TALBOT pursueth the  DAUPHIN, and driveth him: then enter JOAN LA  PUCELLE, driving Englishmen before her, and exit after them then re-enter TALBOT
Pard to the hind, or stepdame to her son,'
Will give thee time to leave our royal court,
The Bastard of Orleans with him is join'd;
Warwick, although my head still wear the crown,
dog, a mule, a cat, a fitchew, a toad, a lizard, an
And until then your entertain shall be
Where died she?
In bitterness. The common executioner,
So think I too.
Marry, would the word 'farewell' have lengthen'd hours
the fashion of a doublet, or a hat, or a cloak, is
And, in the hearing of these many friends,
thou already, that seest not thy loss in
nothing to a man.
If not, to compass her I'll use my skill.
And all my followers to the eager foe
For some dishonest manners of their life,
He digs and sings
I am not mad, Sir Topas: I say to you, this house is dark.
christened.
Upon the dancing banners of the French,
Where is the life that late I led--
Find we a time for frighted peace to pant,
And the ill counsel of a desert place
Peace! what noise?
Nay, he is dead; and slain by Edward's hand.
Your slander never can endamage him;
No better term than this,--thou art a villain.
Juno sings her blessings upon you.
He is thy crutch; now if thou lose thy stay,
Your infants in your arms, and there have sat
loquitur; a soul feminine saluteth us.
justle a constable. Why, thou deboshed fish thou,
He follow'd you; for love I follow'd him;
I had been still a happy king of men.
Go, bind thou up yon dangling apricocks,
Which aptly sings the good.'
And you, sir! you are welcome.
Deliver'd strongly through my fixed teeth,
Ne'er seen but wonder'd at: and so my state,
Flourish of cornets. Exeunt all but SICINIUS and BRUTUS
That if he overhold his price so much,
That Cardinal Beaufort is at point of death;
Enter, from one side, OBERON, with his train; from the other, TITANIA, with hers
Saw you the king to-day, my Lord of Derby?
Away even now, or I will drag thee hence:
Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!
I say thou hast belied mine innocent child;
KING JOHN dies
That hath beside well in his person wrought
When he hath mused of taking kingdoms in,
And, but she spoke it dying, I would not
What said he when he came unto himself?
And let them know, both what we mean to do,
Call Philostrate.
In Russian habit: here they stay'd an hour,
After they heard young Arthur was alive?
Be buried quick with her, and so will I:
Dwells in the fickle grace of her he follows.
What, must our mouths be cold?
He did love her, sir, as a gentleman loves a woman.
Get on your cloak, and haste you to Lord Timon;
To Servant
Marry, master schoolmaster, he that is likest to a hogshead.
Were I not old. Know, Claudio, to thy head,
Who comes here?
I cannot bound a pitch above dull woe:
He did incline to sadness, and oft-times
Indeed she is.
His master thus.
Not i' the stocks, fool.
If you swear, my lord, you shall not be forsworn.
With thy keen sword impress as make me bleed:
Gentlemen.
SCENE II. A banqueting-room in Timon's house.
He is as worthy for an empress' love
I would my arms could match thee in contention,
'Faith, and so we should;
Anon, anon, sir.
To be the pillage of a giglot wench:'
That we remember. There is our commission,
The honour is sacred which he talks on now,
You bid me make it orderly and well,
'Tis true, Master Shallow.
Most veritable; therefore look to't well.
And she shall file our engines with advice,
Moe things like men! Eat, Timon, and abhor them.
For but a month ago I went from hence,
It is as easy to count atomies as to resolve the
Become themselves in her: that the holy priests
My lord, I know a discontented gentleman,
Hence with it, and together with the dam
the first row of the pious chanson will show you
Had I your tongues and eyes, I'ld use them so
be last swallowed: when he needs what you have
So do I his.
Their pangs of love, with other incident throes
But let thy spiders, that suck up thy venom,
Master-Gunner	But now thou shalt not. Be thou ruled by me:
Even so. Cover their faces.
You take my house when you do take the prop
my speech, for besides that it is excellently well
And you!
not he be there again? In my house I am sure he is:
Nor spell nor charm,
I care not if I have: it is my study
Avoid, and leave him.
It lies as sightly on the back of him
I made these wars for Egypt: and the queen,--
Thither must I, and here I leave you, sir.
Farewell: buy food, and get thyself in flesh.
[Aside]  No, 'faith; not so much as his patience.
heart, let that pass. By the world, I recount no
Henceforth be earls, the first that ever Scotland
False face must hide what the false heart doth know.
More than with parting from my lord the king.
Yet am I Suffolk and the cardinal's broker.
Whilst thou liest warm at home, secure and safe;
You should not blemish it, if I stood by:
'Faith, I ran when I saw others run.
Where is Malvolio?
'Tis very like.
There's no man happy; the purest of their wives
Which to preserve is sleep, which being spotted
I do not like these several councils, I.
Who hateth him and honours not his father,
But they do shake their heads, and I am here
If I had said I had seen him do you wrong?
As well as he that sleeps; lords that can prate
The borrow'd majesty, of England here.
Tie up the libertine in a field of feasts,
Whom best I love I cross; to make my gift,
Shylock, do you hear?
o'er a cold decree: such a hare is madness the
And make distinct the very breach whereout
Not till I sheathe it in a murderer's skin.
To follow in a house where twice so many
The fore-recited practises; whereof
And they shall find dear deer of us, my friends.
Unmasking
Against the churches; though the yesty waves
As many arrows, loosed several ways,
Enter SAMPSON and GREGORY, of the house of Capulet, armed with swords and bucklers
By crying comfort from a hollow breast,
And I'll appear again.
She is too subtle for thee; and her smoothness,
could have rebuked him at Harfleur, but that we
That woe is me to think upon thy woes
Embrace we then this opportunity
With Pindarus his bondman, on this hill.
A great suspicion: stay the friar too.
Come, Desdemona: I have but an hour
French march. Enter BURGUNDY and forces
And touching now the point of human skill,
Like little wanton boys that swim on bladders,
Master, for my hand,
Enter MISTRESS FORD
It shall not need; thy father hath his life.
I know you have a gentle, noble temper,
And what thou hast, forget'st. Thou art not certain;
Good night, Penthesilea.
Enter Provost, CLAUDIO, JULIET, and Officers
As he in his particular act and place
The duke shall grant me justice. I do wonder,
To the tender of our present.
That I neither feel how she should be loved nor
Go give your master this: tell him from me,
That is the way to lay the city flat;
Aside
that ever the devil could have made you our delight?
To 't, luxury, pell-mell! for I lack soldiers.
Who, frighted from my country, did wed
Which you might from relation likewise reap,
That bears recovery's name. But, since your kindness
approves him an intelligent party to the advantages
But prosper better than the Trojan did.
makes honest, and those that she makes honest she
The government of patience! You have won:
Your breach of promise to the Porpentine.
Or that persuasion could but thus convince me,
A place below the first: for what miscarries
The people's hearts, and wean them from themselves.
Why, look you there! look, how it steals away!
It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.
choice. Now, sir, this granted,--as it is a most
Sir, she was respected with him before he married with her.
'What an if you do?'
A plaguing mischief light on Charles and thee!
seem to do that fearfully which you commit
That might have mercy on the fault thou gavest him;
Some surety for a safe return again,
Thy hateful life.
I do embrace thee, as I would embrace
To make a shaking fever in your walls,
So the fool follows after.
What says Ulysses?
Do not, my lord.
A horned man's a monster and a beast.
I am no breeching scholar in the schools;
Exit
What is thy name?
You may my glories and my state depose,
Give guess how near to day. Lucius, I say!
Are shuffled off with such uncurrent pay:
Deny me not, I prithee, gentle Joan.
And since you do profess to be a suitor,
Quiet and gentle thy conditions! for
How long hath he been there?
Since I have my dukedom got
And turn him to no pain; but if he start,
They shall be apprehended by and by.
of fear and cold heart, will he to the king and lay
[Within]  Francis!
Fronting the sun, receives and renders back
Enter SERVILIUS
Flourish
Shall be the label to another deed,
I do beseech you, take it not amiss;
his majesty, out of a self-gracious remembrance, did
to move in't, are the holes where eyes should be,
Proceed thus rashly to the villain's death,
What of that?
Then that you have sent innumerable substance--
of any thing he sees there, let thine eye be thy
By gar, I see 'tis an honest woman.
Be jolly, lords.
When you do take the means whereby I live.
This Tarsus, o'er which I have the government,
To rouse a Grecian that is true in love:
I do refer me to the oracle:
But yet thou shalt have freedom: so, so, so.
And never mount to trouble you again.
Re-enter DUKE OF YORK, with KING RICHARD II, and Officers bearing the regalia
What humble suit attends thy answer there:
But our cold maids do dead men's fingers call them:
Thersites' body is as good as Ajax',
In truth, I know it is a sin to be a mocker: but,
As, though on thinking on no thought I think,
Another lean unwash'd artificer
When thou didst ride in triumph through the streets.
O, then be bold to say Bassanio's dead!
So tell him, with the occurrents, more and less,
If, rather than to marry County Paris,
your voices,
But Jove was never slain, as thou shalt be.
Give me your hand, Orlando. What do you say, sister?
Upon a wrong'd, I would fain have said, a maid!
Doing more murders in this loathsome world,
I know not: but I am sure 'tis safer to
Let me be satisfied, is't good or bad?
They are close delations, working from the heart
This falls out better than I could devise.
Have added slaughter to the sword of traitors.
Let me say no, my liege, an if you please:
moreover, they have spoken untruths; secondarily,
For bounty, that makes gods, does still mar men.
once writ a sonnet in his praise and began thus:
Of any kindred action like to this?
Is father, mother, Tybalt, Romeo, Juliet,
Corrupting in its own fertility.
'Twill not, Sir Thomas Lovell, take't of me,
I' faith, I'll eat nothing; I thank you as much as
And your lips too; for I am well assured
And I have play'd the sheep in losing him.
Which by his death hath lost much majesty.
Nay, hear me, Hubert, drive these men away,
Dismiss your followers and, as suitors should,
Of my dear friend. What should I say, sweet lady?
The king shall be contented: must he lose
I heard not of it before.
And then I ran away to call the watch.
Exit
Presuming on their changeful potency.
Have misdemean'd yourself, and not a little,
Your mistress shall be happy.
To equal my great fortune.
From first to last, the onset and retire
Your graces are right welcome.
Why, she comes to borrow nothing of them.
For the offence he dies. This is our doom:
Pray you, undo this button: thank you, sir.
and drown him, he drowns not himself: argal, he
But this effusion of such manly drops,
Genitive,--horum, harum, horum.
There's places of rebuke. He was a fool;
circle. I'll go sleep, if I can; if I cannot, I'll
borrows of the moon, when Diomed keeps his
Can justly boast of. What's your lordship's pleasure?
he hath faults, with surplus, to tire in repetition.
To the court of King Simonides
Asmath,
Against the Duke of Hereford that appeals me
Lo, hand in hand, Lucius and I will fall.
You do impeach your modesty too much,
To whose ingrate and unauspicious altars
We breathed our counsel: but it pleased your highness
Fie, fie, fie!
Exeunt
Why, how now, Ganymede! sweet Ganymede!
If any noise or soldier you perceive
Pray their graces
Stand by and mark the manner of his teaching.
Will make my boldness manners. Now, good angels
Wounds IAGO
I could myself
I am not barren to bring forth complaints
and view the Frenchmen how they fortify:
Would be interpreted a thing perplex'd
DEMETRIUS throws the body of BASSIANUS into the  pit; then exeunt DEMETRIUS and CHIRON, dragging off LAVINIA
He takes false shadows for true substances.
Had that was well worth watching--it was hang'd
This way the coverlet, another way the sheets:
Why, you are nothing then: neither maid, widow, nor wife?
In more than this deed does require! And blessing
Exeunt
so forcible is thy wit. But I must tell thee
Look on't again I dare not.
Sirrah, if any ask you for your master,
He shall not need it, if he have his own.
But there's but one in all doth hold his place:
To let him spend his time no more at home,
will die, if he love her not, and she will die, ere
Marry, sir, I have matter in my head against you;
With half their forces the full Pride of France
Hang there like a fruit, my soul,
Which warp'd the line of every other favour;
He shall do this, or else I do recant
O vanity of sickness! fierce extremes
That seems to speak things strange.
And cuts me from the best of all my land
Set roaring war: to the dread rattling thunder
And gird thee with the sword. Cousin of York,
How now, Ophelia! what's the matter?
In our own natures frail, and capable
Unfit to hear moral philosophy:
Bight Phoebus in his strength--a malady
Dearer than eye-sight, space, and liberty;
And he will look as hollow as a ghost,
My lord the king, the king!
Our shame perpetual. Once a day I'll visit
head, and show the world what the bird hath done to
will do it sir, in print. Gardon! Remuneration!
Sword is an oath, and oaths must have their course.
Although the kite soar with unbloodied beak?
Upon mine honour, no.
An hypocrite, a virgin-violator;
My sword, made weak by my affection, would
The steeled gaoler is the friend of men.
and many other evidences proclaim her with all
To amorous Phillida. Why art thou here,
When I from France set foot at Ravenspurgh,
And quite divorce his memory from his part.
His daughter first, and then in sequel all,
I see them! I see them! there's Best's son, the
Shall touch the people--which time shall not want,
Exit OSWALD
Now I have taken heart thou vanishest:
And I will help thee to prefer her too:
Given order for our horses; and to-night,
Being native burghers of this desert city,
I saw thee late at the Count Orsino's.
A couch for luxury and damned incest.
Fear her not, Lucius: somewhat doth she mean:
Like envious floods o'er-run her lovely face,
By his own interdiction stands accursed,
'Your--wife, so I would say--
Believe't not lightly--though I go alone,
The air will drink the sap. To every county
To miseries enough; no hope to help you,
you our voices heartily.
A doctrine of obedience; and would gladly
As I had rather hide me from my greatness,
Lie hid moe thousand deaths: yet death we fear,
When I did love you ill? This has no holding,
And take it from a heart that wishes towards you
They should be good men; their affairs as righteous:
He gave me a jewel th' other day, and now he has
Now here's another discontented paper,
Dost thou not know?
Told the most piteous tale of Lear and him
From thy great fall. Come, fellow, be thou honest:
Good morrow, Catesby; you are early stirring
Clock striketh
ring may be stolen too: so your brace of unprizable
Harry the Sixth bids thee despair, and die!
your pate. I will carry no crotchets: I'll re you,
The history of all her secret thoughts:
Upon which better part our prayers come in,
That which in mean men we intitle patience
At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,
Here, sir; but trouble him not, his wits are gone.
didst thou not fall out with a tailor for wearing
From thy admiring daughter took the spirits,
Very sweet and contagious, i' faith.
And that my master slew him.
Your hand, my Perdita: so turtles pair,
She's tickled now; her fume needs no spurs,
What lay before them.
How the devil Luxury, with his fat rump and
God's body! the turkeys in my pannier are quite
Then do I give Volquessen, Touraine, Maine,
He is; and, see, he brings the mayor along.
Exeunt Gentleman and Attendants
And shape to win grace though he had no wit.
Welcome, Publius.
Enter DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
If it find heaven, must find it out to-night.
Our sex, as well as I, may chide you for it,
No further halting: satisfy me home
Touching her flight.
Should with his lion gait walk the whole world,
We met by chance; you did not find me here.
Her wondrous qualities and mild behavior,
That I must draw this metal from my side
This is strange: methinks
State-statues only.
This is unlikely:
I dare not drink yet, madam; by and by.
Which, but thou hast already, with all my heart
This is not well, my lord, this is not well.
Then keep thy vow, sirrah, when thou meetest the fellow.
Here comes his servant: how now, Catesby,
That art to me as secret and as dear
We know thy charge, Brakenbury, and will obey.
O Cressid! O false Cressid! false, false, false!
Enter YORK
On this unworthy scaffold to bring forth
Now, brother of Clarence, how like you our choice,
her die too, and give him a worse! and let worst
I will bite thee by the ear for that jest.
When shall we see again?
Arm'd as we are, let's stay within this house.
Your joys with like relation. Go together,
Nay, I have done already.
to find myself fobbed in it.
As willingly as one would kill a fly,
beggar: who overcame he? the beggar. The
Will have of these trim vanities!
You must provide to bottom it on me;
Calling him 'Humphrey, the good Duke of
And here, I take it, is the doctor come.
Of entrance to a quarrel, but being in,
There speak, and strike, brave boys, and take
Go not home.
Still did I tell him it was vile and bad.
Fie upon thee! art not ashamed?
come; make her laugh at that. Prithee, Horatio, tell
That doth frequent your house.
Yet do not go away: come, basilisk,
Than seek the end of one, thou shalt no sooner
Doing the honour of thy lordliness
On their departure most of all show evil:
and he will smile upon her, which will now be so
Full fourteen weeks before the course of time.
The Volscians are dislodged, and Marcius gone:
What title hast thou, traitor, to the crown?
'Well, well!' why, have you any discretion? have
CARDINAL
Your nobles will not hear you, but are gone
Washes it off, and sprinkles in your faces
But be thou mild and blush not at my shame,
It is impossible that I should die
That every wretch, pining and pale before,
Exeunt, bearing MARK ANTONY
I never gave you kingdom, call'd you children,
To her will we to dinner.
He be as miserably slain as I.
Well, sir.
And an old hare hoar,
But where the bull and cow are both milk-white,
For then my guiltless blood must cry against 'em.
With twenty odd-conceited true-love knots.
Noble Marcius!
Romeo!
That surfeit on their ease, will day by day
Look, where the holy legate comes apace,
Where civil blood makes civil hands unclean.
Till I be gentle, stay thou for thy good morrow;
Ay, please your grace.
No, do not.
Yes, that I will; and wherefore will I do it?
I do desire to learn, sir: and I hope, if you have
The chidden billow seems to pelt the clouds;
Are much deceived; for they did swear you did.
Good Doctor Pinch, you are a conjurer;
A borrow'd title hast thou bought too dear:
A little little grave, an obscure grave;
Is topping your white ewe. Arise, arise;
on 't, Jove; a foul fault! When gods have hot
But with a baser man of arms by far
She's coming; to her, coz. O boy, thou hadst a father!
Becomes it thee to be thus bold in terms
officers in Windsor, to search for a gentleman that
No other than I appear.
out by that?
Love doth to her eyes repair,
Be not ta'en tardy by unwise delay.
Who made thee, then, a bloody minister,
That she loves him, 'tis apt and of great credit:
And would conceive for what I gave the ring
are they gone, and there they intend to sup.
his name was Antigonus, a nobleman. But to make an
No, not much moved:
They are the faction. O conspiracy,
Tell Athens, in the sequence of degree
To-night we hold a solemn supper sir,
Lying down at OPHELIA's feet
Master, shall I fetch your stuff from shipboard?
After 'the duke his father,' with 'the knife,'
No, never such an oath; nor will not now.
Exeunt
in a thatched house!
Brother John Bates, is not that the morning which
Dies
Should ever get that privilege of me.
please his mother and to be partly proud; which he
I'll rather kill myself.
country, simple though I stand here.
Nay, that's most fix'd.
Give me my robe, put on my crown; I have
More than my father's skill, which was the greatest
Thou rascal beadle, hold thy bloody hand!
says 'Launcelot, budge not.' 'Budge,' says the
DON
I doubt not of his temperance.
To ears of flesh and blood. List, list, O, list!
That yet can do thee office? If thou hast,
This secret is so weighty, 'twill require
And every hair that's on't, Helen, that's dead,
Become a churchman better than ambition:
behaviors to love, will, after he hath laughed at
Music plays
Ratcliff!
Your honour hath no shriving work in hand.
Thou seest what's past, go fear thy king withal.
Here he is, here he is. How is't with you, sir?
to the madman.
a merry hour.
Come your way, sir. 'Bless you, good father friar.
fetch thee with a wanion.
Off-capp'd to him: and, by the faith of man,
My lady charged my duty in this business.
Levy great sums of money through the realm
With golden cherubins is fretted: her andirons--
And wakes it now, to look so green and pale
What now?
To compass wonders but by help of devils.
[To IMOGEN]  You are not well: remain here in the cave;
But where thou art not known, why, there they show
And hear the sentence of your moved prince.
Thou hast beguiled my hopes; nought but mine eye
melancholy sold a goodly manor for a song.
Why stand'st thou still, and go'st not to the duke?
By holy crosses, where she kneels and prays
Masters, play here; I will content your pains;
This proves me still a sheep.
He must, he is, he cannot but be wise:
Shall not regreet our fair dominions,
Even to that drop ten thousand wiry friends
I prithee, Tom, beat Cut's saddle, put a few flocks
So long as Edward is thy constant friend,
Took it too eagerly: his soldiers fell to spoil,
must needs confess,--
To smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss.
Perhaps she cull'd it from among the rest.
Yields up his life unto a world of odds:
SCENE VII. Another part of the plains.
And there's for twitting me with perjury.
You had but that opinion of yourself
safe-conduct for his person of the magnanimous
Shall be my surety; 'fore whose throne 'tis needful,
for he cares not what he puts into the press, when
The French are bravely in their battles set,
will;'tis strongly wedged up in a block-head, but
More hideous when thou show'st thee in a child
What subject can give sentence on his king?
And then away to Venice to your friend;
ACT III
Therefore 'twere reason you had manners now.
And Silvia is myself: banish'd from her
And justly and religiously unfold
Therefore, I pray you, lead me to the caskets
Exit with Servant
amends is but patched with virtue. If that this
O, gentlemen, help!
Ay, but why?
The hunt is up, the morn is bright and grey,
And take the shame with joy.
I am so angry at these abject terms;
Intelligent of our state; what hath been seen,
Whom we have apprehended in the fact;
But see thy fault! France hath in thee found out
Or horse or oxen from the leopard,
Cleopatra,
They that least lend it you shall lack you first.
Fitzwater, thou art damn'd to hell for this.
Thy brat hath been cast out, like to itself,
As well as I am able. The rich stream
Who, when they see the hours ripe on earth,
And tell sad stories of the death of kings;
Because till now we never saw your face:
Even in the chair of state: belike he means,
Ye speak like honest men; pray God, ye prove so!
How sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank!
Enter Surveyor
So vanish'd: which foreshow'd our princely eagle,
What!
A stone by thee.
Higher than both in blood and life, stands up
than the fools' zanies.
Rob me the exchequer the first thing thou doest, and
How sharp the point of this remembrance is!--
Which in your outward actions shows itself
towards you: I have told you what I have seen
I thank you, honest gentlemen; good night.
Peace! the charm's wound up.
Out with it boldly: truth loves open dealing.
And never live but true unto his liege!
His subjects to oppression and contempt
To gentle exercise and proof of arms.
Strike at thy life. Grieved I, I had but one?
Do you not love me? do you not, indeed?
For truth hath better deeds than words to grace it.
We shall be much unfurnished for this time.
why, thou knowest I am as valiant as Hercules: but
daughters, of what complexion soever; and so buffets
Exeunt
Jeweller:	If he will touch the estimate: but, for that--
Strike those that hurt, and hurt not those that help.
'The humour of it,' quoth a'! here's a fellow
Re-enter ANGELO, MARIANA, FRIAR PETER, and Provost
O Cymbeline! heaven and my conscience knows
Then I, and you, and all of us fell down,
Sir, 'tis my occupation to be plain:
You ne'er kill'd Imogen til now. Help, help!
Where you shall hold your session. At this time
Enter PISTOL
Say you so? Fair lord,--
Pray, write down, Borachio. Yours, sirrah?
Shall gild her bridal bed and make her rich
Would, Polydote, thou hadst not done't! though valour
My leisure serves me, pensive daughter, now.
But Silvia is too fair, too true, too holy,
Ay, but not yet to die.
Past all expressing. It is very meet
This will last out a night in Russia,
That day he overcame the Nervii:
Why then, can one desire too much of a good thing?
From his allegiance to an heretic;
Upon condition Publius shall not live,
To entertain the lag-end of my life
though we willingly consented to his banishment, yet
'ARTEMIDORUS.'
Yet heavens are just, and time suppresseth wrongs.
Exeunt PAULINA and Ladies, with HERMIONE
Falling on his sword
That she was false: O, she was heavenly true!
Hath an argosy cast away, coming from Tripolis.
you, O the dearest of creatures, would even renew me
Well, officer, arrest him at my suit.
Clamours of hell, be measures to our pomp?
Thou wast the prettiest babe that e'er I nursed:
Owes nothing to thy blasts. But who comes here?
Take up the body.
His daughter's woe and heavy well-a-day
So, now dismiss your army when ye please:
And each several chamber bless,
I here bestow a simple instrument,
Mine, such as fill my heart with unhoped joys.
I beseech you, peace:
Nor yet the other's distance comfort me.
The wonder is, he hath endured so long:
Though his right arm might purchase his own time
Il est trop difficile, madame, comme je pense.
I am senseless of your wrath; a touch more rare
O Scotland, Scotland!
clients: though you change your place, you need not
Will cause Demetrius to awake.
Exeunt
Exeunt DOCTOR CAIUS and RUGBY
Come, come, my son, I'll bring thee on thy way:
With a refined traveller of Spain;
In good time, sir; what's that?
[Above]  O my lord!
And dares not answer nay;--
'Tis a gentle man here--a plague o' these
your full time of imprisonment and your deliverance
Name Cleopatra as she is call'd in Rome;
warrant for it: it hath not moved him at all.
For Christian shame, put by this barbarous brawl:
I have not known when his affections sway'd
He presently become a Christian;
There's meaning in thy snores.
Even the billows of the sea,
Whose spirit with divine ambition puff'd
And how desirous of our sight they are.
It is not lost; but what an if it were?
Rise up a knight.
My prayers on the adverse party fight;
The chaplain of the Tower hath buried them;
And they have served me to effectless use:
Is there no remedy?
Shylock, there's thrice thy money offer'd thee.
As twenty seas, if all their sand were pearl,
Forbidden bandying in Verona streets:
I'll end my exhortation after dinner.
Proffers not took reap thanks for their reward.
That makes the weight: had I great Juno's power,
Feed not thy sovereign's foe, my gentle earth,
Such goodness of your justice, that our soul
Would God that any in this noble presence
Which nor our nature nor our place can bear,
For going on death's net, whom none resist.
And not a hair upon a soldier's head
Lucius our emperor; for well I know
country, Sicilia, prithee speak no more; whose very
What trumpet is that same?
He went hence but now,
Fortune had left to both of us alike
Exit CATESBY
Double six thousand, and then treble that,
Is yonder the man?
And cloister thee in some religious house:
--Whose wrongs in us God pardon!--did set forth
now should I kiss my father; well, he weeps on. Now
Exeunt
Thy womb let loose, to chase us to our graves.
Must he needs trouble me in 't,--hum!--'bove
And on a safer judgment all revoke
Now, by the stock and honour of my kin,
Who are surprised withal; but my rejoicing
Not what you are, I know it will excuse
This morning, like the spirit of a youth
the word is well culled, chose, sweet and apt, I do
these two moles, these blind ones, aboard him: if he
Thou talk'st of nothing.
And bound them.
But thou art fair, and at thy birth, dear boy,
Howsoever you have been his liar, as you say you
Our gentry than our parents' noble names,
And hath in his effect a voice potential
My best attires: I am again for Cydnus,
Dear lord, go you and greet him in his tent:
My fear hath catch'd your fondness: now I see
And then I swore thee, saving of thy life,
Found thee a way, out of his wreck, to rise in;
How now, my son!
Come, gentle Master Slender, come; we stay for you.
To raise a mutiny betwixt yourselves:
That makes calamity of so long life;
Glad at the thing they scowl at.
Crown him and say 'Long live our emperor!'
What torch is yond, that vainly lends his light
Break we our watch up; and by my advice,
Thou, eunuch Mardian!
Use us and it.
Go get thee hence, and find my dog again,
Our helpful ship was splitted in the midst;
Came he not home to-night?
And then run mad indeed, stark mad! for all
What more commands he?
The power that I have on you is, to spare you;
Enter three or four Petitioners, PETER, the Armourer's man, being one
Nay, but it is not so.
Only a show or two, and so agree
When a gentleman is disposed to swear, it is not for
Do me this right; hear me with patience.
This other doth command a little door
From whence an issue I might propagate,
Left his to the worthiest; so his successor
I hope so.
him use for it, a double heart for his single one:
Come, sir, come, we know you well enough.
Hold then my sword, and turn away thy face,
An you mean to mock me after, you should not have
Good gods!
Most true. The will! Let's stay and hear the will.
[Within]  Brother Troilus!
My bounties upon you.
The head is not more native to the heart,
Stay, stand apart; I know not which is which.
Which so appearing to the common eyes,
I would thou didst itch from head to foot and I had
Than to entreaty.
For these known evils, but to give me leave,
And am I last that knows it? O, thou think'st
brain more than he has beat my bones: I will buy
Exeunt
While I, their king, that hither them importune,
SCENE I. A heath.
Why should he die, sir?
You straight are on your knees for pardon, pardon;
Exeunt
Then is courtesy a turncoat. But it is certain I
I wonder now how yonder city stands
When all's spent, he 'ld be cross'd then, an he could.
Be blamed for't how you might.
Find cause in Caesar.
Yes, my lord.
Deserve a sweet look from Demetrius' eye,
For I can take, and Pistol's cock is up,
A whoreson beetle-headed, flap-ear'd knave!
I do bequeath my faithful services
And to set on this wretched woman here
Bid him demand what pledge will please him best.
See'st thou this object, Kent?
SCENE II. Padua. LUCENTIO'S house.
me like thieves of mercy: but they knew what they
Creditors? devils!
And heartily entreats you take good comfort.
Surrey, thou liest.
Before the sun rose he was harness'd light,
you have reason, be brief: 'tis not that time of
The purple sap from her sweet brother's body
Thanks. What's the matter, you dissentious rogues,
Pointing to Caliban
Bohemia stays here longer.
Save I alone, till Antony have spoke.
Was heavy on me: thou art so far before
Is hard at study; pray now, rest yourself;
A barren-spirited fellow; one that feeds
And breathing to his breathless excellence
O Valentine, this I endure for thee!
I do detest false perjured Proteus.
'Tis right.
Praised be God, and not our strength, for it!
To doubtful fortunes; sequestering from me all
Enter Players
Swart, like my shoe, but her face nothing half so
Ascribes the glory of his conquest got
I'll be the first, sure.
I do, my lord; and in her eye I find
wooed Margaret, the Lady Hero's gentlewoman, by the
Their drenched natures lie as in a death,
Which now the public body, which doth seldom
'O, farewell, Warwick!'
Exact the penalty.
You'll find it otherwise, I assure you: therefore,
Nor what I have done by water.
That gave't surmised shape. Why then, you princes,
And better 'twere that both of us did fast,
Ay, and perhaps receive much honour by him.
Have used to conquer, standing on the earth,
He throws the bottle at him. Exit
And give him light that it was blinded by.
these days. The king has killed his heart. Good
Ay me! says one; O Jove! the other cries;
Must keep aloof from strict arbitrement,
That villanous abominable misleader of youth,
A time, methinks, too short
Father, I know; and oft have shot at them,
We'll send Mark Antony to the senate-house:
in the world, I will hold a long distance. My duty
and I rob the thieves and go merrily to London, it
Go I to make the French lay down their arms.
Will not proclaim against her maiden loss,
Look, where he goes, even now, out at the portal!
I must be cruel, only to be kind:
MARCUS and the Sons of TITUS kneel
Our lock'd embrasures, strangles our dear vows
Lo you, here she comes! This is her very guise;
Becomes a fear, as being o'erpower'd: therefore
Or I will fill the house with armed men,
My noble steed, known to the camp, I give him,
The imperial metal, circling now thy brow,
As clears her from all blame.
ninescore and seventeen pounds; of which he made
I am their mother; who should keep me from them?
Why, what a rascal art thou then, to praise him so
If I must not, I need not be barren of accusations;
Forget, forgive; conclude and be agreed;
I am the son of Marcus Cato, ho!
To him that made him proud, the pope.
Lord cardinal, I will follow Eleanor,
They tax our policy, and call it cowardice,
Which we will niggard with a little rest.
As doth that orbed continent the fire
Continues still a Jove.
surprise him; such I will have, whom I am sure he
And this, so sole and so unmatchable,
For which attempt the judges have pronounced
Raised by your populous troops: but you are come
What is it carries you away?
For choosing me when Clarence is in place.
Our subjects, sir,
Enter AJAX
'Tis no counterfeit.
Nay, hear him.
See, see! they join, embrace, and seem to kiss,
'Twas never merry world since, of two usuries, the
By whom our heavy haps had their beginning:
If I now had him brought into my power.
Witches' mummy, maw and gulf
Commend these waters to those baby eyes
A vessel of our country richly fraught:
And plighter of high hearts! O, that I were
I shall lack voice: the deeds of Coriolanus
Therefore I came unto your majesty.
For 'tis your thoughts that now must deck our kings,
I took by the throat the circumcised dog,
So you shall;
The air breathes upon us here most sweetly.
But stay, I'll read it over once again.
Shed yet some small drops from thy tender spring,
So:
What, are you merry, knights?
Fire burn, and cauldron bubble.
For I have bills for money by exchange
all, Katharine, break thy mind to me in broken
O, spare me not, my brother Edward's son,
can be in love. Yet Benedick was such another, and
churlish as the bear, slow as the elephant: a man
As may beseem a monarch like himself.
Boy, this shall not excuse the injuries
My soul consents not to give sovereignty.
Except thou wilt except against my love.
If he be less, he's nothing; but he's more,
move and what he hears may be believed, that the
SCENE VI. Alexandria. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's camp.
answer before him. If it be honest you have spoke,
Whom I have sent for to determine this,
Do you know, sirrah, where Lieutenant Cassio lies?
elder-gun, that a poor and private displeasure can
Faith, thou hast some crotchets in thy head. Now,
Boskos thromuldo boskos.
A virtuous and a Christian-like conclusion,
Above my fortunes, yet my state is well:
A privilege never to see me more.
There's ne'er a villain dwelling in all Denmark
To take a paper up that I let fall.
Upon Good-Friday and ne'er broke his fast:
SCENE I. Wales: near the cave of Belarius.
Is she to be buried in Christian burial that
from you: how had you been my friends else? why
Follow, my lord, and I'll soon bring her back.
Nero is an angler in the lake of darkness.
Say what you will, sir, but I know what I know;
Till then I'll keep him dark and safely lock'd.
Unless thou couldst put on some other shape,
Whose deaths are yet unrevenged: I prithee,
'Sweep on, you fat and greasy citizens;
And I beseech you instantly to visit
And she is fair, and, fairer than that word,
Hercules' labours; which is, to bring Signior
O, we are undone, both we and ours for ever!
cozen somebody in this city under my countenance.
Tell him that, by his licence, Fortinbras
came any from mine that might offend your majesty.
Do one pluck down another and together
I would I might go to hell among the rogues. And so
And call upon my soul within the house;
Or lose mine arm fort: thou hast beat me out
For some displeasing service I have done,
And so there is: but yet the king hath drawn
Worse and worse; she will not come! O vile,
SCENE VI. The same. A banqueting-room in Timon's house.
That Talbot's name might be in thee revived
O Buckingham, now do I play the touch,
For other service first: toward Ephesus
As that proud dame, the lord protector's wife.
The king my father gave you such a ring.
Creep into acorn-cups and hide them there.
Safe mayst thou wander, safe return again!
Did I not bid thee meet me in the park,
Which trust accordingly, kind citizens,
What Propugnation is in one man's valour,
thank him, makes no stranger of me; we are familiar at first.
Thou art perfect then, our ship hath touch'd upon
Even so as I mine own course have set down:
Lies richer in your thoughts than on his tomb;
Hey non nonny, nonny, hey nonny;
Yet have we some revenge. Let husbands know
Exit
How honourable ladies sought my love,
The suit which you demand is gone and dead:
Such sanctity hath heaven given his hand--
When it hoars ere it be spent.
have need of poor ones, poor ones may make what
I have thee not, and yet I see thee still.
Yet let me obtain my wish.
Or doth this churlish superscription
Thereon dependent, for your brother's life,--
Which way ran he that kill'd Mercutio?
When he was here,
I have assailed her with music, but she vouchsafes no notice.
I knew you must be edified by the margent ere you had done.
Strike; down with them; cut the villains' throats:
Look, how he laughs already!
What worser place can I beg in your love,--
The stamp of nobleness in any person
It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,
Blow, and split thyself.
Consider what you first did swear unto,
The which if he can prove, a' pops me out
What say'st thou, ha?
It is, my lord.
DON
She shows a body rather than a life,
Turn your displeasure that way: for our faults
Enter LEONATO and ANTONIO
It must be so; for miracles are ceased;
Afresh within me, and these thy offices,
The circumstance consider'd, good my lord,
Which, when it bites and blows upon my body,
Enter a third Servingman. The first meets him
What, was she ravish'd? tell who did the deed.
Well, I am glad that all things sort so well.
What, I prithee, might be the cause?
Out of his grace he adds.
If he be old enough, what needs your grace
Here is a wonder, if you talk of a wonder.
Of what he has, and has not.
I know not. If they speak but truth of her,
And worth it, with addition! But, fair soul,
Another thing to fall. I not deny,
And bring him up to liking.
Shortcake upon All-hallowmas last, a fortnight
That croaks the fatal entrance of Duncan
Wrench up thy power to the highest.
Scorn now their hand should give them burial.
with a medlar: then it will be the earliest fruit
Fear not, my lord, but think
but slenderly known himself.
Go; I come, I come.
Sirs, take your places and be vigilant:
Yet never means to wed where he hath woo'd.
The offer of this time, I cannot promise
I have no tongue but one: gentle my lord,
Master constable, you go not the way to examine:
Were I the ghost that walk'd, I'ld bid you mark
Will you, not having my consent,
Well, well, no more.
Therefore commend me; let him not come there,
Spread thy close curtain, love-performing night,
Tell thy story;
During the fray, SATURNINUS, TAMORA, DEMETRIUS, CHIRON and AARON go out and re-enter, above
Shall pitch a field when we are dead.
Neighbour, well met: whither away so fast?
Yea, and perhaps with more successful words
Exeunt Ladies
RICHARD
So may you by my dull and heavy eye,
Bloodstained with these valiant combatants.
I can call spirits from the vasty deep.
Exeunt
king; and take vanity the puppet's part against the
Thus, like the formal vice, Iniquity,
At sea, I think.
That from Tarentum and Brundusium
A table full of welcome make scarce one dainty dish.
Where should they be set else? he were a brave
Who's that which calls?
And where care lodges, sleep will never lie;
A single thing, as I am now, that wonders
As he's reported by this gentleman;
Is guilty of a several bastardy,
for that: and yet, to say the truth, reason and
good lord! a noble gentleman 'tis, if he would not
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, DOLABELLA, THYREUS, with others
For, till I see them here, by doubtful fear
That any did. Had we pursued that life,
Interpretation should abuse and call this
To cheque time broke in a disorder'd string;
Kneel in the streets and beg for grace in vain.
All scatter'd in the bottom of the sea:
None!
Is spied in populous cities.
What, John Rugby! John!
I' the end admire, where ladies shall be frighted,
What it is worth embraced.
SCENE II. The same.
too disputable for my company: I think of as many
The broken rancour of your high-swoln hearts,
Never did base and rotten policy
Cherish rebellion and are rebels all.
Not seldom, nor no slight cheques, when I have
To every new protester; if you know
Pray God, he keep his oath!
The mathematics and the metaphysics,
How now, my charge!
By this day and this light, the fellow has mettle
Nursing of my sons!
the letter?
For your fair sakes have we neglected time,
He'll tickle it for his concupy.
doublet and hose and leaves off his wit!
Will touch us all too near, if God prevent not.
Hath blown that vice in me: I must repent.
And do a deed that fortune never did,
Sweet lady, let me rake it from the earth.
For he can do no more than Caesar's arm
You must prepare to fight without Achilles.
As thus for thus and such a grief for such,
Bad is the trade that must play fool to sorrow,
Exeunt all but CARDINAL OF WINCHESTER and Legate
And smooth as monumental alabaster.
While we bethink a means to break it off.
my dreams again: I will therefore tarry in
Both to my God and to my gracious king:
To answer their suspicion with their lives.
In this man's place before him?
Exeunt
Our sighs and they shall lodge the summer corn,
court. You told me you salute not at the court, but
Silence awhile. Robin, take off this head.
With words more sweet, and yet more dangerous,
'Tis he, my lord. Come hither, goodman baldpate:
this husband, which, you say, must charge his horns
I pray you now, good master Slender's serving-man,
This seven years did not Talbot see his son;
Nor the insuppressive mettle of our spirits,
Thy lips rot off!
Three knights upon our party slain to-day,
I might call him
both empty; the brain the heavier for being too
To be revenged on Rome and Saturnine.
Where now half tales be truths: her love to both
As deep as to the lungs? who does me this?
or since dishonour traffics with man's nature,
Enter a Messenger
Worthily purchased take my daughter: but
Exit
The tread of a man's foot: to the wars!
As you are toss'd with. In faith,
Even as I would when I to love begin.
'Tis well: I'll have thee speak out the rest soon.
But with a little act upon the blood.
Shall this fellow live?
To parley with the sole inheritor
Though he have served a Roman: save him, sir,
Enter OTHELLO, DESDEMONA, CASSIO, and Attendants
Were best he do it secretly, alone.
Use it for my love some other way than swearing by it.
The people do admit you, and are summon'd
My brother Troilus lodges there to-night:
Forethought by heaven!
Or let me lose the fashion of a man!
Ill not pay a denier. What, will you make a younker
King HENRY VIII takes his seat; whispers LOVELL, who goes to CARDINAL WOLSEY
You strike my people; and your disorder'd rabble
And let him sign it: we'll away to-night
These fishers tell the infirmities of men;
Dost thou not see my baby at my breast,
And let us not be dainty of leave-taking,
I think his soul is in hell, madonna.
And when I urged the ransom once again
This dangerous conception in this point.
Thou darest as well be hanged.
Enter LUCULLUS
A cry of women within
A sequester from liberty, fasting and prayer,
Withhold thine indignation, mighty heaven,
May be abused? Have you not read, Roderigo,
Breathe not where princes are.
That noises it against us.
As dear be to thee as thy father was.
The battle done, and they within our power,
God's my life, where's the sexton? let him write
Which in his greatest need will shrink from him.
Your presence glads our days: honour we love;
Such fiery numbers as the prompting eyes
under for another.
First he did praise my beauty, then my speech.
should sing.
Having once this juice,
qualities. The spirit of my father grows strong in
And helper to a husband. But, O strange men!
Exit from above
Reads
Of a detesting lord.
I would detain you here some month or two
Men's eyes were made to look, and let them gaze;
Ay, and amid this hurly I intend
And Dromio, my man, did bring them me.
Culling the principal of all the deer.
with thee in faction; I will o'errun thee with
To signify the approaching of his lord;
Leave hollaing, man: here.
The confirmation of my promised gift,
Your special mandate for the state-affairs
Paris, Guysors, Poictiers, are all quite lost.
Thou drunken slave, I sent thee for a rope;
were enriched with any other injuries but these, I
And these same crosses spoil me. Who are you?
Under your great command. You are to know
counsellor?
And let the wise man fly:
Knocks
Kindled with unchaste desire,
whore-masterly villain, with the sleeve, back to the
To show some reason, of no little force,
Worse than a smoky house: I had rather live
Join not with grief, fair woman, do not so,
Against the hospitable canon, would I
Know you any, Hero?
I will confess to you that I love him.
This was his basket.
What then?
Hath here distrain'd the Tower to his use.
good must of necessity hold his virtue to you; whose
yourself ready in your cabin for the mischance of
Maintain my opinion.
'Tis one of the best discretions of a 'oman as ever
To know for what he comes, and whence he comes,
Where, where? Art thou come? why, my cheese, my
[Aside] It goes on, I see,
Exeunt
As I learn'd,
May walk again: if such thing be, thy mother
ANTONY comes down
I have been seeking you this hour, my lord:
That came a-wooing with you, and so many a time,
his rapier.
Yea, for obtaining of suits, whereof the hangman
Acquaint her here of my son Paris' love;
in's time a great buyer of land, with his statutes,
To keep in darkness what occasion now
But, Lepidus, go you to Caesar's house;
You shall hear from me still; the time shall not
There was a yielding,--this admits no excuse.
And durst not once peep out.
Well, we cannot greatly condemn our success: some
me in the garret one night, as we were scouring my
This might have been prevented and made whole
Can chase away the first-conceived sound?
Like fragments in hard voyages, became
To eat us hungerly, and when they are full,
You are welcome.
Communicatest with dreams;--how can this be?--
For that I heard the clink and fall of swords,
Why should he stay, whom love doth press to go?
To make it clear; but do confess I have
How long hath she been deformed?
To stop his wounds, lest he do bleed to death.
To fight against me under Percy's pay,
Wherein I am false I am honest; not true, to be true.
Than three great argosies; besides two galliases,
Hence, and shut your gates upon's.
Why, foolish boy, the king is left behind,
Shall be as welcome to the ears of Brutus
Bassanio presently will go aboard:
hath done a miracle; and would ye not think his
Their infants quarter'd with the hands of war;
If I gave them all my living, I'ld keep my coxcombs
The paper as the body of my friend,
Thrusts forth his horns again into the world;
to bind him up a rod, as being worthy to be whipped.
He drinks
What good could they pretend?
franklins say it, I'll swear it.
Can hold it up: here I and sorrows sit;
And I dare well maintain it with my life,
means and content is without three good friends;
Upon my life, by some device or other
vulgar wit!
For now we owe allegiance unto Henry.
See, how with signs and tokens she can scrowl.
Myself will straight aboard: and to the state
If she did know me one. Away with her!
If you had been the wife of Hercules,
And my heart breaks at it.
SCENE V. Another room in Philario's house.
Things hid and barr'd, you mean, from common sense?
those that do in: now thou dost ill to say the
To fust in us unused. Now, whether it be
that I know you are a gentleman of good conceit: I
Or last, your fine Egyptian cookery
well. There was more foolery yet, if I could
How earnestly he cast his eyes upon me!
Yet execute thy wrath in me alone,
And spotless shall mine innocence arise,
excellent at faults.
and down late; but notwithstanding,--to tell you in
By his best arrow with the golden head,
And the issue there create
Nothing, madam.
Maugre thy strength, youth, place, and eminence,
Being well arrived from Delphos, are both landed,
All hail, my sovereign liege!
Than ever frown in Greece. By Jove himself!
Lo, whilst I waited on my tender lambs,
Never bestrid a horse, save one that had
Your majesty entendre bettre que moi.
beard is more than a youth, and he that hath no
Deserve as full as fortunate a bed
Out, you rogue! you pluck my foot awry:
Ay, ay; and she hath offer'd to the doom--
Is scatter'd and disjoin'd from fellowship.
And dwell upon your grave when you are dead;
Mercy on me! I have a great dispositions to cry.
To tire your royalty.
Power as he was a counsellor to try him,
And say there is no sin but to be rich;
Sir, I shall not be slack: in sign whereof,
March afar off, and shot within
Trust not those cunning waters of his eyes,
Now marry in an instant.
being governed, as the sea is, by our noble and
He who shall speak for her is afar off guilty
Create her child of spleen; that it may live,
what news?
And says, if ladies be but young and fair,
Throw me again.
Stands apart
I would Poison that vile rascal.
To-morrow do I meet thee, fell as death;
But, if you frown upon this proffer'd peace,
There's Ulysses and old Nestor, whose wit was mouldy
Why, what did I? I did nothing. I'll go farther
Lay comforts to your bosom; and bestow
That were excusable, that, and thousands more
Obscure and lowly swain, King Henry's blood,
And prophesying with accents terrible
Now, sister, let us hear your firm resolve.
Without impeachment: for, to say the sooth,
Else had she with her father ranged along.
Err in bestowing it.
such a place;' some swearing, some crying for a
And you too, gentle Hero?
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS and SIMPLE
Learn more than thou trowest,
Heavily, heavily:
Exit ROBIN
Light seeking light doth light of light beguile:
To play the broker in mine own behalf;
of Kent in Germany.
I say, O Caesar, Antony is dead.
What, is he arrested? Tell me at whose suit.
Must I go like a traitor thither?
True, madam: and, to comfort you with chance,
Enter Keeper, with a dish
thee, good man's son, from the foul fiend! five
I will, lady.
Sing, and disperse 'em, if thou canst: leave working.
But, pray, how pass'd it?
Nay, then, this spark will prove a raging fire,
wherein crafty, but in villany? wherein villanous,
And hold fair friendship with his majesty.
If He, which is the top of judgment, should
Methinks no body should be sad but I:
the shot here; here's no scoring but upon the pate.
How low am I? I am not yet so low
Peace! we'll hear him.
LAVINIA turns over with her stumps the books which LUCIUS has let fall
be ruled by him.
Pale as thy smock! when we shall meet at compt,
It cannot be i' the eye, for apes and monkeys
And that within ourselves we disagree,
Whiles lions war and battle for their dens,
Drawing his sword
To measure kingdoms with his feeble steps;
'Poor forlorn Proteus, passionate Proteus,
The 'why' is plain as way to parish church:
They are reformed, civil, full of good
If thou wilt outstrip death, go cross the seas,
He smiles, and says his Edward is install'd;
Once name you derogately, when to sound your name
I am hers:
For his shrunk shank; and his big manly voice,
Exeunt
This civil war of wits were much better used
God, sir, and he hath enough.
Enter JULIET
but to counterfeit dying, when a man thereby
If you turn not, you will return the sooner.
And our good his.
How dost thou mean a fat marriage?
So is the dear'st o' the loss.
As thou hast lent me wit to plot this drift!
Pulling clothes out of the basket
me: I'll tell you strange things of this knave
Did ever in so true a flame of liking
Lean, rent and beggar'd by the strumpet wind!
Our knees shall kneel till to the ground they grow:
Why, as you, my lord,
I was, and held me glad of such a doom.
Go do it instantly.
That are misled upon your cousin's part;
An you lie, sirrah, we'll have you whipped.
Daylight and champaign discovers not more: this is
Whilst you have fed upon my signories,
Thou darest not, coward, live to see that day.
SCENE I. Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
Are your doors lock'd?
Patience herself would startle at this letter
'Zounds! who is there?
To the great sender turns a sour offence,
Exhalest this vapour-vow; in thee it is:
The duke cannot deny the course of law:
Still cupboarding the viand, never bearing
Enter a Second Servant
And to survey the bodies of the dead.
Refuse me, hate me, torture me to death!
Fall'n on the inventors' reads: all this can I
If my suspect be false, forgive me, God,
to-morrow four o'clock.
And do not play in wench-like words with that
And he's indicted falsely.
Rises
And 'tis but wisdom to make strong against him:
Let him do his spite:
Enter BEVIS, with Lord SAY
Exit
Nor what ensues, but have a fog in them,
Then I degraded you from being king,
That blind priest, like the eldest son of fortune,
I for an Edward weep, so do not they:
Pale, pale as ashes, all bedaub'd in blood,
thy shoulders that a milkmaid, if she be in love,
The thieves have bound the true men. Now could thou
To entertain my vows of thanks and praise!
That shows the ignorant a kind of fear
Than keep a corner in the thing I love
With good old folks and let them tell thee tales
Which heaven shall take in nature of a fee;
Or to the meanest groom.
As thine was to thy husband; and this boy
That's cover'd o'er with Turkish tapestry,
When I return with victory from the field
Carouse full measure to her maidenhead,
That seems disgracious in the city's eyes,
The noble Brutus, thrusting this report
To make this present summons: unsolicited
I loved Ophelia: forty thousand brothers
Enter KING HENRY IV, PRINCE HENRY, and others
After his studies or his usual pain?
Who shortly also died: for whose dear love,
Madam, be patient: as I was cause
He cannot want fifty five hundred talents.
With open mouth swallowing a tailor's news;
Were they not forced with those that should be ours,
Well in her person I say I will not have you.
From this world-wearied flesh. Eyes, look your last!
Tom hath been scared out of his good wits: bless
Nay, I'll watch you for that; and that's one of the
For him attempting who was self-subdued;
Adversity's sweet milk, philosophy,
Bocchus, the king of Libya; Archelaus,
I shall devise something: but, I pray you, commend
By the mass, lad, thou sayest true; it is like we
Sir, here's a woman would speak with you.
chaste mistress the moon, under whose countenance we steal.
Sits in a foggy cloud, and stays for me.
Here come the lovers, full of joy and mirth.
The virtuous lady, Countess of Auvergne,
This beauteous lady Thisby is certain.
Devils soonest tempt, resembling spirits of light.
Silvius, the time was that I hated thee,
To flatter Caesar, would you mingle eyes
She melted into air. Affrighted much,
they did last time.
Aside
Good boy, tell him I come.
them meet; that that same young Trojan ass, that
Titus, unkind and careless of thine own,
I have tremor cordis on me: my heart dances;
Even from the tongueless caverns of the earth,
I do remain as neuter. So, fare you well;
Tell me, moreover, hast thou sounded him,
'Ware pencils, ho! let me not die your debtor,
And ye choice spirits that admonish me
Some rare note-worthy object in thy travel:
Why, Hal, 'tis my vocation, Hal; 'tis no sin for a
What is he, Biondello?
Well then, if ever I thank any man, I'll thank you;
What you commanded me, but by her woman
My mother gave it me.
The vapour of our valour will o'erturn them.
Ladies! what are their wills?
troubles me, and the foolish fortune of this girl;
And thence discover how with most advantage
Set fire on barns and hay-stacks in the night,
Enter MISTRESS FORD and MISTRESS PAGE
Ay, for if Edward repossess the crown,
How now! is he dead?
A dream of what thou wert, a breath, a bubble,
As dreams are made on, and our little life
Say 'a day,' without the 'ever.' No, no, Orlando;
Cannot be mute,--or thought,--for cogitation
Sirrah, thou art said to have a stubborn soul.
Why, I am glad on't; this is well: stand up:
And let his knights have colder looks among you;
Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled,
His perishing root with the increasing vine!
Do on the oak, hive with one winter's brush
thee with a downright blow!
Of nothing so much as that I am not like Timon.
I never did thee harm: why wilt thou slay me?
And then to have the humour of state; and after a
Good countrymen, let me depart alone,
happiness, glad of other men's good, content with my
To entreat your majesty to visit him.
Their warlike fraughtage: now on Dardan plains
The beggary of his change; but 'tis your graces
What can you vouch against him, Signior Lucio?
Upon my wretched women, that so long
And thinking of it makes me cry 'alas!'
But here an angel in a golden bed
As fearfully as doth a galled rock
there's no labouring i' the winter. All that follow
KING CLAUDIUS puts LAERTES' hand into HAMLET's
Fie, fie upon her! she's able to freeze the god
What dost thou wrap and fumble in thine arms?
What is your tidings?
I wonder if the lion be to speak.
Wishes and tears, poor fancy's followers.
Shall they see us?
Yields to the theft: had he been where he thought,
lady mother I am returning; entertained my convoy;
SPOKEN BY PROSPERO
Biron, read it over.
I'll think them every one an Antony,
Enter DON PEDRO, DON JOHN, CLAUDIO, BENEDICK, and BALTHASAR
up the meat, the two crowns of the egg. When thou
Exit
Die when you will, a smock shall be your shroud.
fairly in jest.
Take, then, this your companion by the hand,
Faith there's a dozen of 'em, with delicate fine
But if an humble prayer may prevail,
hollow: but a good heart, Kate, is the sun and the
I cannot choose: sometime he angers me
Sends thee this word,--that, if thou love thy sons,
And Cytherea all in sedges hid,
me in heaven, because I am a Jew's daughter: and he
He calls us back: my pride fell with my fortunes;
comest thou to beard me in Denmark? What, my young
Hath Butler brought those horses from the sheriff?
mark Alexander's life well, Harry of Monmouth's life
Ah, do not tear away thyself from me!
And heard thee murmur tales of iron wars;
When was this?
is stabbing.
Which else runs tickling up and down the veins,
Thou naughty varlet!
To barbarous licence; as 'tis ever common
Of fantasy, of dreams and ceremonies:
Go to my steward.
There I deny my land service. But give me your
potatoes; let it thunder to the tune of Green
belongs to't. Ask me if I am a courtier: it shall
Rights by rights falter, strengths by strengths do fail.
Her affability and bashful modesty,
Though first in question, is thy secondary.
Why, I will see thee at Philippi, then.
Ay, uncle, we will keep it, if we can;
Give sentence on this execrable wretch,
I was the chief that raised him to the crown,
And then, from hour to hour, we rot and rot;
But, if thou live to see like right bereft,
How could he see his way to seek out you?
'Hath a dog money? is it possible
Most savage and unnatural!
Your statue spouting blood in many pipes,
Why, madam, if I were your father's dog,
For the base matter to illuminate
That I shall lose distinction in my joys;
Be not so hasty to confound my meaning:
Some busy and insinuating rogue,
Which all men speak with him.
Do that good mischief which may make this island
Those precious motives, those strong knots of love,
For I will kiss her.
Lord Mortimer, and cousin Glendower,
With Henry's death the English circle ends;
That thou shalt see the difference of our spirits,
A very handsome man.
More suits you to conceive than I to speak of.
Thunder
Rome more. Had you rather Caesar were living and
I have o'ershot myself to tell you of it:
makes it soon mortal.
Throng many doubtful hollow-hearted friends,
Nor the division of a battle knows
Thy father, or thy mother, nay, or both,
I will implore: if not, i' the name of God,
My lord, you are unjust, and, more than so,
match. O, if men were to be saved by merit, what
Ay, I know who 'tis; he hath no interest in me in
BISHOP
About the mount Misenum.
Drum heard
Who should I swear by? thou believest no god:
How wise, how noble, young, how rarely featured,
Draw the huge bottoms through the furrow'd sea,
I do not think thou canst, for then thou wast not
piercing statutes daily, to chain up and restrain
He shall but bear them as the ass bears gold,
Cuts off TITUS's hand
And that's true too.
Fell from their boughs and left me open, bare
The matter?
I beseech you, sir, go: my young master doth expect
Thou lovest me not; for, brother, if thou didst,
And he shall think that thou, which know'st the way
But can you, if you would?
thirtieth of May next ensuing. Item, that the duchy
Ha! I'll tell thee what;
These drums! these trumpets, flutes! what!
O, throw away the worser part of it,
The means of weakness and debility;
No, not the duke's.
O peace, peace, peace! now, now.
Scots, Douglas, that runs o' horseback up a hill
and, I think, hath appointed them contrary places;
And now I fear that fatal prophecy
The face of Caesar, they are vanished.
qualified in; and the best of me is diligence.
A root of ancient envy. If Jupiter
And what of that?
month's length a-piece, by an abstract of success:
that you praised so to the queen? O, that I knew
And hire post-horses; I will hence to-night.
Shall say against their hearts 'We thank the gods
The blood, and dearest-valued blood, of France.
You'll give me leave to spare, when you shall find
Of equal friendship and proceeding. Alas, sir,
Why, you know 'tis dimpled: I think his smiling
The old cock.
No, no, good night: I'll be your fool no more.
In kissing, do you render or receive?
Was ever woman in this humour woo'd?
To pluck bright honour from the pale-faced moon,
As e'er my conversation coped withal.
No, not a whit: I find you passing gentle.
Can counsel and speak comfort to that grief
Betroth'd and would have married her perforce
That hast so long walk'd hand in hand with time:
To do I know not what: but it sufficeth
And now their pride and mettle is asleep,
Be govern'd by your knowledge, and proceed
Search, seek, and know how this foul murder comes.
Then murders, treasons and detested sins,
Exit
watching! In this slumbery agitation, besides her
SCENE V. Florence. Without the walls. A tucket afar off.
What foul play had we, that we came from thence?
If you see vengeance,--
Who is that calls so coldly?
Foix, Lestrale, Bouciqualt, and Charolois;
Do thou stand for my father, and examine me upon the
I should do thus.
I will meditate the while upon some horrid message
O, I have read it: it is heresy. Have you no more to say?
Show boldness and aspiring confidence.
Here standeth Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk,
Already are i' the court.
I fear, too much.
Swords out, and tilting one at other's breast,
Should be maintain'd, assembled and collected,
Re-enter PISANIO and Ladies
And if she did play false, the fault was hers;
dreamest not of, the which for sport sake are
We will rather sleep than talk: we know what
Sometime like apes that mow and chatter at me
I thank you, madam, that you tender her.
Your children were vexation to your youth,
And pluck the mangled Tybalt from his shroud?
Enter CASSIUS
Does lecher in my sight.
He bade me say so--more than all the sceptres
So I do, against my will.
Since the true life on't was--
As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true;
True is it that we have seen better days,
Enter SATURNINUS and TAMORA, with AEMILIUS, Tribunes, Senators, and others
Some obscure precedence that hath tofore been sain.
a woman's fitness comes by fits. Therein I must
O most bloody sight!
Out, ye rogue! Play out the play: I have much to
Churl, upon thy eyes I throw
Enter SICINIUS and BRUTUS
See you where Benedick hath hid himself?
They burn him with their tapers
With all my heart.
O, sir, very well; here in your orchard.
Because I would not see thy cruel nails
Say what you can, my false o'erweighs your true.
Than camels in the war, who have their provand
Look, sir.
That dwell in every region of his face;
Says it is past her cure.
For that good hand thou sent'st the emperor.
Whom leprosy o'ertake!--i' the midst o' the fight,
Wherefore this ghastly looking?
Father, tear the crown from the usurper's head.
Unless it be by inspiration.
Hath an aspect of intercession, which
I can produce a champion that will prove
Thy life is dear; for all that life can rate
will. What shalt thou exchange for rags? robes;
Where, for a monument upon thy bones,
The king's eyes, that so long have slept upon
Many a time he danced thee on his knee,
Though you can guess what temperance should be,
Here comes the man, sir, that did rescue me.
He is at Milford-Haven: read, and tell me
Art thou there, Diomed? Draw thy sword, and give me
I'll apply
I am a stranger here in Gloucestershire:
grange, resides this dejected Mariana. At that
perceive that a Jack guardant cannot office me from
What?
which now shall die in oblivion and thou return
A man of their infirmity.
Nor is the wide world ignorant of her worth,
Horatio, these three years I have taken a note of
Re-enter GLOUCESTER
But in it shares some woe; though the main part
And dare be bold to weep for Buckingham,
Oft our displeasures, to ourselves unjust,
Do plainly give you out an unstain'd shepherd,
Inquire the Jew's house out, give him this deed
I took you for that cunning whore of Venice
How, madam! Russians!
Come, let us to our holy task again.
A living drollery. Now I will believe
And in part him: ' do you mark this, Reynaldo?
black, this plaintiff here, the offender, did call
I am my father's heir and only son:
Foretell the ending of mortality.
stands well with her.
Thou hast faced many things.
Harry of Hereford, Lancaster and Derby
The way into his mercy: nay, if he coy'd
Out of the way, that your converse and business
I'll get me one of such another length.
Under the title of John Mortimer.
Enter CARDINAL PANDULPH
Believe this crack to be in my dread mistress,
four; and, with a word, out-faced you from your
to a point.
Oscorbidulchos volivorco.
Norfolk, throw down, we bid; there is no boot.
Where kings command. I was, I must confess,
What a long night is this! I will not change my
Decline to your confounding contraries,
With what a sharp-provided wit he reasons!
Here comes Sir John.
ACT III
Be pleased that I shake off these names you give me:
Thanks to my lord.
Say, if I do, the laws are mine, not thine:
Her suit is now to repossess those lands;
[Within]  The Lord protect him! so we answer him:
Who dead? speak, man.
And stain the sun with fog, as sometime clouds
What advocate hast thou to him?
I know not.
established against the rich, and provide more
You were best call it 'daughter-beamed eyes.'
On whom foul death hath made this slaughter;
was I with you there for the goose?
Exeunt
In love, I hope: sweet fellowship in shame!
Listen great things:--Brutus and Cassius
The good is oft interred with their bones;
Alexas did revolt; and went to Jewry on
By leaving earth? comfort me, counsel me.
From below your duke to beneath your constable, it
Orsino, noble sir,
Exeunt Fairies. TITANIA sleeps
Calmly, I do beseech you.
and I was like to be apprehended for the witch of
Exeunt
Go to; say no more.
Heaven guard my mother's honour and my land!
Not so happy, yet much happier.
I'ld have you do it ever: when you sing,
We shall be shorten'd in our aim, which was
The quality and hair of our attempt
And, after some dispatch in hand at court,
About his marriage, nor my own disgrace,
I have a suit to you.
How! so far?
Drown the lamenting fool in sea-salt tears.
There is no hope that ever I will stay,
Exit an Attendant
Stand thee close, then, under this pent-house, for
This cell's my court: here have I few attendants
By Jeshu, I am your majesty's countryman, I care not
He never gave commandment for their death.
To say my wife is fair, feeds well, loves company,
to marriage which they will climb incontinent, or
True, sir; I was in love with my bed: I thank you,
A deed without a name.
Exeunt
Well, my good lord.
and such like, the spice and salt that season a man?
But music for the time doth change his nature.
To try the fair adventure of to-morrow.
And cried 'A crown, or else a glorious tomb!
they would else have married me to the rotten medlar.
Enter JOHN OF GAUNT with DUCHESS
You have work'd for me; there's payment for you: hence!
Thanks, courteous wall: Jove shield thee well for this!
I like it well: good Grumio, fetch it me.
his tongue,
Who, all for want of pruning, with intrusion
The forfeit, sovereign, of my servant's life;
I have seen thee stem, and thou hast oft beheld
And, as my fortune ripens with thy love,
I do not care: I'll give thrice so much land
For beauty, wit,
Where would you had remain'd until this time,
The garden here is more convenient.
Did you assay him?
Why, sir, say if you had,
You have heard him swear downright he was.
Mine eyes cannot hold out water, methinks: to
Right welcome, sir!
Who cried aloud, 'What scourge for perjury
But truer stars did govern Proteus' birth
Between our statures; she hath urged her height;
Thieves! thieves!
know on't; would I were hanged, la, else.
Say I will come.
For no man, sir.
Exeunt
You understand me: over and beside
To God, the widow's champion and defence.
O worthy fool! One that hath been a courtier,
Hardly serve.
flesh and blood is my friend: ergo, he that kisses
Were not this glorious casket stored with ill:
His statutes cancell'd and his treasure spent;
I will tell truth; by grace itself I swear.
By thy favour, sweet welkin, I must sigh in thy face:
Than drops of blood were in my father's veins.
How sweet a plant have you untimely cropp'd!
Your way is shorter;
Cannot conclude but by the yea and no
Upon what cause?
Of Phoebus' burning kisses: such a pother
A devil, a born devil, on whose nature
Which to deny concerns more than avails; for as
I never spake with her in all my life.
Till I can find occasion of revenge.
And take my milk for gall, you murdering ministers,
prince of chivalry!
Who either by public war or private treason
As well as Lewis of France, or the Earl of Warwick,
give thee none.
Now my charms are all o'erthrown,
Come on, then,
Merely through fear; that the straight pass was damm'd
Whose heart within his bosom is.
[Kneeling] And to your royal grace, and the good queen,
Never till this day
Will none but Herne the hunter serve your turn?
Sing all a green willow must be my garland.
So. What trade are you of, sir?
Further to question me of your king's departure:
So doves do peck the falcon's piercing talons;
When will you go?
SCENE II. Athens. QUINCE'S house.
Nay, follow him, gentlemen; see the issue of his search.
But canst thou guess that he doth aim at it?
I'll see if I can get my husband's ring,
That he's so slightly valued in his messenger,
Heard ye not what an humble suppliant
And doth it give me such a sight as this?
Ay, and by heaven, one that will do the deed
Infortunate in nothing but in thee:
I am not weary, and 'tis long to night:
And then he runs straight and even.
Against thy majesty; boys, with women's voices,
Sear'd otherwise; nay, worse--if worse--extended
Music within
'Faith, she would serve after a long voyage at sea.
Eight wild-boars roasted whole at a breakfast, and
Advances
If ever we are nature's, these are ours; this thorn
Or like an idle thresher with a flail,
What say you to a neat's foot?
As beasts and birds and fishes.
And that we are contented Caesar shall
To save my boy, to nourish and bring him up;
By what we do to-night.
Sway'd from the point, by looking down on Caesar.
I would not for the world.
fair, or I'll   never look on her; mild, or come not
I'll have my bond; I will not hear thee speak:
'And more faults than hairs,'--
With wondrous potency. Once more, good night:
This news was brought to Richard but even now:
A breed for barren metal of his friend?
'Tis love you cavil at: I am not Love.
And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge,
What is the matter, my lord?
Not she: nor doth she tempt: but it is I
Pray, sit; more welcome are ye to my fortunes
If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
Shall I dash out. Go, take it to the fire;
I would play Lord Pandarus of Phrygia, sir, to bring
Let me speak a little. This youth that you see here
What means this jest? I pray you, master, tell me.
Since frost itself as actively doth burn
a fool you were upon the ground.
What dost thou think 'tis worth?
First made to heaven, first be to heaven perform'd,
Fare thee well, fare thee well.
Ay, that's my name.
But if I cannot win you to this love,
Then, as I said, the duke, great Bolingbroke,
The strides they victors made: and now our cowards,
No, my profound heart: and yet, by the very fangs
Of life, of crown, of queen, at once dispatch'd:
From every meaner man.
great abatement of kindness appears as well in the
Shake off their sterile curse.
So God help Montague as he proves true!
She intends unto his holiness.
About his neck, Bohemia: who, if I
No, my good lord;
I'll so offend, to make offence a skill;
What's the matter?
As fit the bridal. Beshrew me much, Emilia,
Thy flatterers yet wear silk, drink wine, lie soft;
And therefore are they very dangerous.
To do you rest, a thousand deaths would die.
Betwixt our armies true intelligence.
SCENE I. A forest in the north of England.
Regard me as I do not flatter, and
keeping of wise people; for, indeed, there is no
I will presently go learn their day of marriage.
In Whitsun pastorals: sure this robe of mine
A vestal livery will I take me to,
But you have out-faced them all.
Good morrow, and well met. How have ye done
It is my lady, O, it is my love!
For daring to affy a mighty lord
He's never any thing but your true servant.
Shall set thee on triumphant chariots and
Upon my life, I am a lord indeed
Soft! I will go along;
As thou affect'st.
When in one line two crafts directly meet.
Complots of mischief, treason, villanies
Together with the pitiful complaints
He was a gentleman on whom I built
Think you my uncle did dissemble, grandam?
As you owe to your wife.
ride of a horse, one must ride behind. An honest
But yet indeed the lesser is his daughter
shall you have a shorter journey to your desires by
To sing a song that old was sung,
Lady, of that I have made a bold charter; but I
No, Warwick, thou art worthy of the sway,
But is there any?
To sell and mart your offices for gold
Rome, be as just and gracious unto me
In that there's comfort.
in studs, and here and there pieced with packthread.
Another king! they grow like Hydra's heads:
The liker you; few taller are so young.
And piteous plainings of the pretty babes,
They needs must show themselves; which
Thou shouldst not bear from me a Greekish member
No doubt but he hath got a quiet catch.
Why, as men do a-land; the great ones eat up the
That speak against us! A charge we bear i' the war,
Enter PERICLES, CLEON, DIONYZA, and LYCHORIDA with MARINA in her arms
Marry, now I can tell.
What bloody business ever.
learning, is indeed deceased, or, as you would say
I would the friends we miss were safe arrived.
Call'd Katharina, fair and virtuous?
pack: 'Via!' says the fiend; 'away!' says the
This avarice
Nay, I'll be patient.
Where it fits not you to know.
Is to mistake again; though indirect,
Nay, then,
So rare a gentleman as Signior Benedick.
If't be your pleasure and most wise consent,
With over-weather'd ribs and ragged sails,
It is not truer he is Angelo
If you'll be patient, I'll no more be mad;
'Lord' quoth he! That a monster should be such a natural!
Doth oft close in pollution, yet of thee
Ne'er trust me then; for when a world of men
Renowned duke, vouchsafe to take the pains
I with the morning's love have oft made sport,
Better to cease to be. Pray, sir, to the army:
There's for you, Patroclus.
O, on my soul, my cousin is belied!
What he will do graciously, I will thankfully receive.
Though you be therein curious, the least cause
My frail mortality to know itself,
No such matter, sir: I do live by the church; for
Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
Never did captive with a freer heart
You saw my master wink and laugh upon you?
A valiant son-in-law thou shalt enjoy;
Their banners wave again.
Knocking within
Ere we may think her ripe to be a bride.
Enter HAMLET, HORATIO, and MARCELLUS
From off this brier pluck a white rose with me.
I serve you, madam:
To stir a mutiny in the mildest thoughts
Enter two Citizens meeting
He's one honest enough: would all the rest were so!
I cannot tell.
There is between my will and all offences
Which speed, we hope, the better for our words.
This house is little: the old man and his people
SCENE II. The palace.
But there is come a messenger before,
I must perforce. Farewell.
To talk of your good father. In his youth
and at his heels a rabble of his companions, thither
his dagger.
That shall civil sayings show:
Uncles of Gloucester and of Winchester,
Whispers the Masquers
For fear of swallowing; but with nimble wing
Unhappy Claudio! wretched Isabel!
Where, after I have solemnly interr'd
He's traitor to the height.
My father, in his habit as he lived!
But here comes Antony.
Let pry through the portage of the head
And the king's rouse the heavens all bruit again,
I pray you, be acquainted with this maid;
thy love? I could: shall I entreat thy love? I
Chrish save me, la! in an hour: O, tish ill done,
To bring you thus together, 'tis no sin,
To your notorious shame; I doubt it not.
And I could sing, would weeping do me good,
I am but mad north-north-west: when the wind is
We hold our town for neither, yet for both.
How, sir, how!
Simple, plain Clarence! I do love thee so,
[To MARINA]  Come your ways. My masters, you say
Go, leave me.
In these affairs to aid me with thy counsel.
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus and DROMIO of Ephesus from the courtezan's
All the foul terrors in dark-seated hell--
Staying the odds by adding four.
be it spoken. I should quickly leap into a wife.
Enter an Attendant
Antony, and Potpan!
What sayest thou, my bully-rook?
'Faith, some do, and some do not. But, mistress, if
Alexander killed his friend Cleitus, being in his
Is lighted on poor Hastings' wretched head!
There is a fair behavior in thee, captain;
Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY
Your grace,
Meet me to-morrow in St. George's field,
But have been gazed on like a comet: she speaks,
Indeed your drums, being beaten, will cry out;
For him, I partly know his mind--to find thee
Come, boy, with me; my thoughts are ripe in mischief:
dialogue between the fool and the soldier? Come,
By each particular star in heaven and
No; heaven forfend! I would not kill thy soul.
In likeness of a new untrimmed bride.
Exeunt
And feast and banquet in the open streets,
Diffusest honey-drops, refreshing showers,
Would have flung from him, but, indeed, he could not:
Of limping winter treads, even such delight
God for his mercy! what a tide of woes
cause between an orange wife and a fosset-seller;
They are then excused, my lord, when they see not
From him that fled some strange indignity,
Before you can say 'come' and 'go,'
I'll be with her by and by; I'll but bring my young
Still lamenting and mourning for Suffolk's death?
I dare my life lay down and will do't, sir,
Drove him to this.
In memory of her when she is dead,
Who, I rob? I a thief? not I, by my faith.
I thank your worship. For mine own part, I never
If she in chains of magic were not bound,
Of him that did not ask, but mock, bestow
Alas, who knows?
in the army of any sort.
That none but I and my companion maid
'Tis easy to't; and there I will attend
Could best express how slow his soul sail'd on,
He seems to be a stranger; but his present is
If you are so fond over her iniquity, give her
Who's there? speak, ho! speak quickly, or I shoot.
Is he not approved in the height a villain, that
Mine, Hal, mine.
And therefore red, that would avoid dispraise,
[Singing]
lyingest knave in Christendom. What! I am not
Why muse you, sir? 'tis dinner-time.
son, and am going with Sir Proteus to the Imperial's
And made the most notorious geck and gull
Thou mayst cut a morsel off the spit.
fashion, i' faith. I saw the Duchess of Milan's
I know your majesty has always loved her
thankful for it.
I tender so the safety of my liege.
With the rude brevity and discharge of one.
What shall some see?
Beatrice,--
And therefore, lovely Tamora, queen of Goths,
Back do I toss these treasons to thy head;
And make my misery serve thy turn: so use it
I will seem friendly, as thou hast advised me.
'Tis midnight; I'll go arm myself.
The skies are painted with unnumber'd sparks,
Personates thee: and thy lopp'd branches point
Than die ere I hear more: strive, man, and speak.
And so it shall be so for Katharina.
Lest that it make me so unsound a man
Pinch him, fairies, mutually;
To thine own lips again.
Now is it manhood, wisdom and defence,
And, to the advantage, I, being here, took't up.
Be it so, Titus, and gramercy too.
More than my body's parting with my soul!
It will go hard with poor Antonio.
We cannot fight for love, as men may do;
And leap for joy, though they are lame with blows:
[Aside]  This is about that which the bishop spake:
Farewell, my lord: securely I espy
No more, great empress; Bassianus comes:
And give them friendly welcome every one:
Thus honest fools lay out their wealth on court'sies.
No? wilt thou not? I like thy armour well;
'Zounds, ye fat paunch, an ye call me coward, by the
Enter BENVOLIO and MERCUTIO
We would have all such offenders so cut off: and we
Repose you there; while I to this hard house--
That were with him exiled. This to be true,
Now tell me, madam, do you love your children?
To help to take her from her borrow'd grave,
Love you the man that wrong'd you?
And yet I know thou wilt.
I fill a place, I know't. How long is't, count,
For such a guest is meet.
I have got two worlds by 't. O my gentle brothers,
Of gallant warriors, noble gentlemen.
Inspired merit so by breath is barr'd:
The part I came in: fight I will no more,
What says that fool of Hagar's offspring, ha?
Sir, are not you my father?
Exeunt CLITUS, DARDANIUS, and VOLUMNIUS
The desperate tempest hath so bang'd the Turks,
Where is this viper
To the sweet glances of thy honour'd love,
Ay, master.
You owe this strange intelligence? or why
We grace the yeoman by conversing with him.
That way the noise is. Tyrant, show thy face!
Be humble to us; call my sovereign yours,
What, man! more water glideth by the mill
A loyal and obedient subject is
Christendom.
Lewis, determine what we shall do straight.
sworn upon't she never shrouded any but lazars.
Old Helicanus goes along behind.
For he is just and always loved us well.
to change your mind.
Use me well in 't. Sister, prove such a wife
have not scaped drowning to be afeard now of your
Against thy peace. Go with me to my house,
wait on her: so the maid that stood in the way for
If that his head have ear in music,--doubtless
Quickly tell me so mush.
Where's Cotus? my master calls
Spoke of in Scotland as this term of fear.
peach-coloured satin, which now peaches him a
That 'twixt his mental and his active parts
Is Claudio thine enemy?
constrained in't to call thee knave, knight.
Where virtue is, these are more virtuous:
Should patch a wall to expel the winter flaw!
Hear it apart.
The great part of my comfort, gone; my queen
I can, my liege.
Let's present him to the duke, like a Roman
accordant, he meant to take the present time by the
think in their hearts they may effect, they will
To this good purpose, that so fairly shows,
I thank you, sir.
Exit LYCHORIDA
Is but his steward: no meed, but he repays
They that have done this deed are honourable:
So let me find thee still. Take this same letter,
are born to do benefits: and what better or
And rouse the prince and ring a hunter's peal,
Still so constant, lord.
Our purpose necessary and not envious:
ANTIPHOLUS
Be counterpoised with such a petty sum!
If thou inclinest that way, thou art a coward,
My will, not all the world:
And made him to resign his crown perforce.
It would become me better than to close
Enter HUBERT and Executioners
subject, if not before the king; which stopped our
God mend all!
like a poor man's right in the law; 'twill hardly
Play too, but so disgraced a part, whose issue
are.
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
Fleeter than arrows, bullets, wind, thought, swifter things.
Profit again should hardly draw me here.
know your answer?
Or lose myself in dotage.
That many things, having full reference
I would Friar Peter--
Can have no note, unless the sun were post--
Were I as patient as the midnight sleep,
The meanest house in Rome, so far my son--
Alencon, Brabant, Bar, and Burgundy;
To whom I am a neighbour and near bred.
Hath begg'd that I will stay at home to-day.
Even so my bloody thoughts, with violent pace,
But then renew I could not, like the moon;
not give you three-pence again.
To lay upon the damn'd, which Sycorax
If the king please; his curses and his blessings
And die in music.
And you shall find me, wretched man, a thing
And will not be uplifted. But remember--
Been, out of fondness, superstitious to him?
'Tis full of thy foul wrongs.
To Saturn, Caius, not to Saturnine;
Pray, draw near.
And he's at some hard point. Speak, man: thy tongue
I am no idle votarist: roots, you clear heavens!
As it hath used to do, that I have found
And strain their cheeks to idle merriment,
Thy lips are warm.
Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
I see thee yet, in form as palpable
To take her by the hand and bid her go,
Oppose not Scythia to ambitious Rome.
Cressida's?
How do you mean, removing of him?
I take it up; and by that sword I swear
To make a world-without-end bargain in.
Almost the copy of my child that's dead,
To hear by the nose, it is dulcet in contagion.
Exit
With amplest entertainment: my free drift
Himself would lodge where senseless they are lying!
That I, which know my heart, do here pronounce,
To comfort Edward with our company.
I say, set on.
ACT II
We make a quire, as doth the prison'd bird,
Ay, cousin Slender, and 'Custalourum.
elbow, de nick, de sin, de foot, de coun.
ACT IV
As we his subjects have in wonder found,
Seize on him, Furies, take him to your torments!'
I do beseech you,
you any eyes? Do you know what a man is? Is not
Their fiery torcher his diurnal ring,
As thou report'st thyself, wast then her servant;
Exit
Now, if this suit lay in Bianco's power,
When you have given good morning to your mistress,
O, come to me!
are betray'd
And therefore, Tranio, for the time I study,
Good night: I prithee, come.
so old to dote on her for any thing: I have years
Whiles you chid me, I did love;
Our temple was he married. Rise, and fade.
That to her brother which I said to thee:
A thousand pound a year, annual support,
He shall drink nought but brine; for I'll not show him
The love that lean'd on them as slippery too,
And but thou love me, let them find me here:
Ah, sweet ducks!
Here, catch this casket; it is worth the pains.
If it be man's work, I'll do 't.
place till some certain shot be paid and the hostess
Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing
Comes forward
Meantime we shall express our darker purpose.
A losing suit against him. Are you answer'd?
Would one day stamp upon me: 't has been done;
And made her widow to a woful bed?
To ARTHUR
When you were there?
From Ravenspurgh to Cotswold will be found
is the right Vincentio.
And leave thee in the storm,
For I have lost us him on a dangerous sea.
Ah, simple men, you know not what you swear!
West of this place, down in the neighbour bottom:
Mistress, you must come away to your father.
The wren with little quill,--
Until our stars that frown lend us a smile.
With solemn reverence: throw away respect,
Awaked an evil nature; and my trust,
Which he confesseth to be manifold,
Or if thou canst not, O, for shame, for shame,
My hate to Marcius: where I find him, were it
With these our late-deceased emperor's sons:
How now, lad! is the wind in that door, i' faith?
You shall be yet far fairer than you are.
him.
Did feign that Orpheus drew trees, stones and floods;
Sovereign and pious else, could speak thee out,
Tell me truly.
You shall command me, sir.
Who call'd me traitor, mountaineer, and swore
We are shame-proof, my lord: and tis some policy
How now, my friend! why dost thou look so pale?
Of no esteem: I, dreading that her purpose
I'll tarry no longer with you: farewell, good
Even for this time I spend in talking to thee.
And so stand fix'd: peace, plenty, love, truth, terror,
Enter the BASTARD, attended
[To WARWICK]  My lord ambassador, these letters are for you,
Then, York, unloose thy long-imprison'd thoughts,
And so did I:--Well, we were born to die.
naming punishes me with the remembrance of that
My plight requires it. Do not weep, good fools;
some scholar would conjure her; for certainly, while
'Faith, I have heard too much, for your words and
But who dare tell her so? If I should speak,
to-morrow. By my troth, Isabel, I loved thy brother:
To her, widow!
For they breathe truth that breathe their words in pain.
I think my husband hath some special suspicion of
as they say, and know the world.
To be a torment to mine enemies?
To-morrow I shall die with mickle age:
Awake the god of day; and, at his warning,
be I will call upon you anon, for some advantage to yourself.
Yet I insisted, yet you answer'd not,
You're a made old man: if the sins of your youth
Flout 'em and scout 'em
The son and heir to that same Faulconbridge.
Nor can one England brook a double reign,
Marry, sir, because silver hath a sweet sound.
wit and it will out at the casement; shut that and
Prefer them hither; for to cunning men
Reserve them till a merrier hour than this.
Why how now? do you speak in the sick tune?
All mine own folly--the society,
Come, Cassius' sword, and find Titinius' heart.
But few now give so great ones. My barge stays;
Nothing.
Flourish. Trumpets sound, and drums
And he my husband best of all affects.
Thou camest on earth to make the earth my hell.
They would not take her life. Is not this true?
And as the butcher takes away the calf
Their heavy burdens at his narrow gate,
Than to suspicion.
Against the senseless winds shalt grin in vain,
Away!
I learn, you take things ill which are not so,
Of Cneius Pompey's; besides what hotter hours,
Exeunt severally
No prophet will I trust, if she prove false.
Pray, walk awhile.
since the death of Hermione, visited that removed
To overtake thee. Would thou hadst less deserved,
That calf-like they my lowing follow'd through
They fight, and CLIFFORD falls
See you, my princes, and my noble peers,
Sirrah, your father's dead;
For I will slay myself.
To second Proculeius?
And say to all the world 'This was a man!'
And made us doff our easy robes of peace,
Thou sober-suited matron, all in black,
Your pleasure and my promise.
Young Arthur is alive: this hand of mine
usurers' men! bawds between gold and want!
Is it a man?
Here's Mistress Quickly, sir, to speak with you.
As yonder lady o'er her fellows shows.
Who put unluckily into this bay
Nightly she sings on yon pomegranate-tree:
And thane of Cawdor too: went it not so?
Behold what honest clothes you send forth to bleaching!
O'ertake pursued success, but I do feel,
Your grace shall understand that at the receipt of
Oft have I seen a timely-parted ghost,
Wilt thou go to bed, Malvolio?
Than drink so much in one.
The king his father call'd Guiderius,--Jove!
Then would to God that I had never seen't!
Did from the flames of Troy upon his shoulder
the lists of the army will maintain upon Edmund,
out, and give it him.' But there was such laughing!
Such news, my lord, as grieves me to unfold.
The pleasure of that madness. Let 't alone.
The devil take order now! I'll to the throng:
My master is awaked by great occasion
In my good brother's fault: I know not why
worthless satisfaction. To this add defiance: and
from all: the rest
I think he'll hear me. Yet, to bite his lip
When death doth close his tender dying eyes,
I say no more than truth, so help me God!
and then to return and swear the lies he forges.
Music. Tables set out: Servants attending.  Enter divers Lords, Senators and others, at several doors
Why, sweet Othello,--
Austria and France shoot in each other's mouth:
A French song and a fiddle has no fellow.
And more he would have said, and more he spoke,
To hazard all our lives in one small boat!
I saw him not these many years, and yet
And that your majesty was a usurper.
for ten year together, you'll be glad to give out a
Enter HECTOR, armed; AENEAS, TROILUS, and other Trojans, with Attendants
And thither I will send you Matthew Goffe;
Marry, this is our device;
To make his bleak winds kiss my parched lips
What though I kill'd her husband and her father?
Or seem so craftily; and that's not good.
Thank you.
By the blood we have shed together, by the vows
And make two pasties of your shameful heads,
Four fixed, and the fifth did whirl about
whether you were sent for, or no?
To-night, to-night. But, mistress, do you know the
I'll sauce them: they have had my house a week at
me.
But march to London with our soldiers?
Then say, Jove laughs. O gentle Romeo,
Come, go we in procession to the village.
Fly with false aim; move the still-peering air,
with such impossible conveyance upon me that I stood
Ciel, cousin Orleans.
Enter HAMLET and HORATIO, at a distance
Come, go with us; we'll look to that anon:
Does reason our petition with more strength
To bury mine intents, but also to effect
His very hair is of the dissembling colour.
Takes note of what is done; and, like a prophet,
Antonio, my father, is deceased;
No more that thane of Cawdor shall deceive
Pray you, tread softly, that the blind mole may not
Enter DOGBERRY and VERGES with the Watch
Make an extent upon his house and lands:
Fit counsellor and servant for a prince,
Why, Belman is as good as he, my lord;
For thousands more, that yet suspect no peril,
Exeunt all but ULYSSES and NESTOR
good mounsieur, have a care the honey-bag break not;
Raining the tears of lamentation
We'll hear him. Noble Antony, go up.
Raze out the written troubles of the brain
So please your majesty, I would I could
I hold your dainties cheap, sir, and your
Where is my mother! why, she is within;
That is, because the traitor murderer lives.
Few come within the compass of my curse,--
If grace had bless'd thee with a fairer life.
So he that doth redeem her thence might wear
Lies down and sleeps
That here were well begun and well begot:
I have sworn 't.
Thy slander hath gone through and through her heart,
Indeed!
such a fellow, to say precisely, were not for the
To bear him easily hence!
As levels with her breeding.
Enter a Servant
Enter SHALLOW
Exeunt
if you mean to save yourself from whipping, leap me
And so, ere answer knows what question would,
I took it for a man; often 'twould say
To come at traitors' calls and do them grace.
And Tom bears logs into the hall
Where is my father, and my mother, nurse?
Serving of becks and jutting-out of bums!
These hands do lack nobility, that they strike
O Dionyza, such a piece of slaughter
Fie, thou dishonest Satan! I call thee by the most
Follow me close, for I will speak to them.
Make forth; the generals would have some words.
What simple thief brags of his own attaint?
The will, the will! we will hear Caesar's will.
In him that was of late an heretic,
But that it bear this trial and last love;
Why should you want? Behold, the earth hath roots;
For that he knew you, might reproach your life
Whom he reports to be a great magician,
Might easiliest harbour in? Thou blessed thing!
How now! what is't?
Of virtue for the name: but do not so:
[Aside]	Two truths are told,
Strikes him
clean linen; and let not him that plays the lion
harmony; I have not the skill.
I find thee apt;
Persuade this rude wretch willingly to die.
I will wish her speedy strength, and visit her with
Hath lately married. Shall our coffers, then,
But do not use it oft, let me entreat you.
The service and the loyalty I owe,
All prompting me how fair young Hero is,
And pursy insolence shall break his wind
Be not, as is our fangled world, a garment
Which now they hold by force and not by right;
Good old knight,
No, no, my lord,
Two props of virtue for a Christian prince,
But say, my lord, it were not register'd,
Thy beauty hath, and made them blind with weeping.
For this, being smelt, with that part cheers each part;
It was a bare petition of a state
senses have but human conditions: his ceremonies
He greets me well. Your master, Pindarus,
Which Salique land the French unjustly gloze
Aside
Sit you too.
To see the life as lively mock'd as ever
For she his hairy temples then had rounded
It turns in less than two nights? O you gods,
But bootless is your sight: he will not speak To any.
Even in the presence of the crowned king.
Damsel, I'll have a bout with you again,
Reads
Exeunt Attendants
Almost to bursting, and the big round tears
The devil himself could not pronounce a title
Exit
My cousin's a fool, and thou art another: I'll wear
What trumpet's that?
you.
Is either slain or wounded dangerously;
Pardon, madam:
For shame, you generals! what do you mean?
Too curst is more than curst: I shall lessen God's
Alarum
I am sprited with a fool.
Out at mine eyes in tender womanish tears.
Be villany less than 'twas! O Imogen!
Shall we their fond pageant see?
To set thee here?
To help him to his grave immediately!
To take from thence all error with his might,
Come, I have heard that fearful commenting
Or my friends, if I should need 'em.
Good my lord,
The gods will diet me with. Prithee, away:
Is this the man you speak of?
Nor let my kingdom's rivers take their course
have loved thyself better now. What man didst thou
Most noble Timon, call the man before thee.
And all those twenty could but kill one life.
But mount you presently and meet with me
I must needs after him, madam, with my letter.
And what of him?
When he by night lay bathed in maiden blood.
Turning the accomplishment of many years
After your thoughts, straight back again to France.
Exeunt
Faintly besiege us one hour in a month.
Fitter for sickness and for crazy age.
man knows where to have me, thou knave, thou!
Enter DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS and LEPIDUS
Which shines here in the west.
Jove, Jove! this shepherd's passion
Devise the fittest time and safest way
Touch you the sourest points with sweetest terms,
Her presence would have interrupted much:
Alack, alack, Edmund, I like not this unnatural
Not fear still to be taken: I know his heart.
Our firebrand brother, Paris, burns us all.
Walk aside the true folk, and let the traitors stay.
To-day, as I came by, I called there;
Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres,
that is, the old duke is banished by his younger
choice Italian: you shall see anon how the murderer
Wish we all joy and honour.
Whose passions and whose plots have broke their sleep,
As if he had been loosed out of hell
'Wit, whither wilt?'
Make way, unruly woman!
What we can do to him, though now the time
I'll rest betide the chamber where thou liest!
And I'll go seek the duke: his banquet is prepared.
On, good Camillo.
Why, she hath a face of her own.
Thy tears are salter than a younger man's,
That can never be.
escaped upon a butt of sack which the sailors
Call here my varlet; I'll unarm again:
Even till a Lethe'd dulness!
you any further trade with us?
But, to prevent the tyrant's violence,--
He was; I heard the proclamation:
You have some sick offence within your mind,
From mine own library with volumes that
Hang over thee, as, sure, it shortly will;
Not Iscariot, sir.
Then, at my suit, look graciously on him;
I shall both find your lordship judge and juror,
With five times so much conversation, I should get
A graceful gentleman; against whose person,
leisure have discredited to him, and now is he
For me three thousand ducats.
I stumbled when I saw: full oft 'tis seen,
Make use of thy salt hours: season the slaves
But I beseech your grace, without offence,--
Here, sir! here, sir! here, sir! here, sir!
Exit
I should love thee but as a property.
If you will take this audit, take this life,
Gaultier or Walter, which it is, I care not:
you're drunk.
And leave those woes alone which I alone
Exit Officers with LUCIO
He loves me well, and I have given him reasons;
But wherefore stand'st thou with thy weapon drawn?
Very ill-favoredly, Master Brook.
Go to the pulpit, Brutus.
I had a thing to say, but let it go:
Deceived in thy integrity, deceived
And I will love thee, and prefer thee too.
I say thy husband: dost understand the word?
I mean, the matter that you read, my lord.
Good even to my ghostly confessor.
when they are known. Call your executioner, and off
Pour the sweet milk of concord into hell,
off Caesar's images, are put to silence. Fare you
The midwife wonder'd and the women cried
My art is not past power nor you past cure.
When will this fearful slumber have an end?
His humble ambition, proud humility,
Although, I know, you 'll swear, terribly swear
Nor I neither.
But though slow, deadly?
King Edward, valiant Richard, Montague,
Upon agreement, of swift Severn's flood;
To liberty and not to banishment.
Hence, vile instrument!
For she did print your royal father off,
But keep the hills and upper regions;
Destroy'd his country, and his name remains
Nay, gentle madam, to him, comfort him.
You may do so; but let it be so hasted that supper
brief in goodness; but grace, being the soul of
God be wi' you, princes all; I'll to my charge:
My will enkindled by mine eyes and ears,
In sign, whereof, this arm, that hath reclaim'd
[Aside]  And worse I may be yet: the worst is not
How shall we, then, behold their natural tears?
And to that vineyard is a planched gate,
with a sad brow? or do you play the flouting Jack,
Whose compass is no bigger than thy head;
Do it, and happy; by my silver bow!
How now! what letter are you reading there?
he would mouth with a beggar, though she smelt brown
Well, think of marriage now; younger than you,
it was against our will.
That you extol me thus?
Why, this is excellent.
ANTIPHOLUS
You stand upon the ravage and behold
base-string of humility. Sirrah, I am sworn brother
I minded him how royal 'twas to pardon
If not Achilles, nothing.
Coldly embracing the discolour'd earth;
Exit
I cannot project mine own cause so well
will be a good excuse for me hereafter to leave my wife.
Let us resolve to scale their flinty bulwarks.
As Neptune's park, ribbed and paled in
Exit
For there I'll ship them all for Ireland.
Ah, what a sign it is of evil life,
You would keep from my heels and beware of an ass.
banished with her father?
And with what wing the staniel cheques at it!
Sir, we have known together in Orleans.
That should be in a Roman you do want,
SCENE IV. The palace yard.
With oath kept waking and with brawling fed:
O God!
blood, and hot blood begets hot thoughts, and hot
Much good do it unto thy gentle heart!
O, turn thy edged sword another way;
In your dear highness' love.
Have you consider'd of my speeches? Know
Good sir, adieu.
When was my lord so much ungently temper'd,
And we create, in absence of ourself,
From out the circle of his territories.
On payment of a hundred thousand crowns,
That hath not noble lustre in your eyes.
I pray you, what is he?
Upon the rack, Bassanio! then confess
Let every eye negotiate for itself
If he come not, then the play is marred: it goes
If not Achilles? Though't be a sportful combat,
My gracious father, by your kingly leave,
And cannot make away.
Re-enter SEYTON
That hot rash haste so indirectly shed.
What offends you, lady?
Enter DUKE OF YORK, attended
Look sweet, be fair, become disloyalty;
Sticks deeper, grows with more pernicious root
Why, what need we
We shall remain in friendship, our conditions
praised,--to the court I'll knock her back, foot
'Tis such another fitchew! marry a perfumed one.
To whom 'tis instant due. Ne'er speak, or think,
From our blest altars. Publish we this peace
nobleman, and she sent him away as cold as a
Shout. Flourish
Now are they but one lamp, one light, one sun.
Too dull for your good wearing?
To solemnize this day the glorious sun
The fair, the chaste and unexpressive she.
Towards Chertsey, noble lord?
Before I have a husband for the elder:
Well be with you, gentlemen!
Religious canons, civil laws are cruel;
So come my soul to bliss, as I speak true;
Why do you send so thick?
And thou art honest too.
Men, wives and children stare, cry out and run
Her father's heart from her! Call France; who stirs?
Which I did think with slower foot came on,
wooing, wedding, and repenting, is as a Scotch jig,
This is true that I say: an I had thee
A second time do such a courtesy.
Are made thy chief afflictions. Alas, kind lord!
As he forth walked on his way:--
worships' company.
Of what it likes or loathes. Now, for your answer:
And may not wear them. O, here comes my nurse,
May it please your honour, Lord Lucius,
And his kissing is as full of sanctity as the touch
eyes looked upon, was the best deserving a fair lady.
A domineering pedant o'er the boy;
Mine eyes did sicken at the sight, and could not
Have you importuned her to such a purpose?
I wish you now, then;
Such men my friends than enemies. Go on,
And not King Richard; thou most beauteous inn,
I say, sir, I will detest myself also, as well as
Ay, who doubts that? a will! a wicked will:
Come, son, away; we may not linger thus.
A plain kerchief, Sir John: my brows become nothing
And sooner dance upon a bloody pole
Doubly redoubled strokes upon the foe:
The body's delicate: the tempest in my mind
He's coming, madam; but in very strange manner. He
I must up-fill this osier cage of ours
How do you, pretty lady?
I have a mind presages me such thrift,
For that's the utmost of his pilgrimage.
And, acting this in an obedient hope,
The yielding of her up?
Suffer't, and live with such as cannot rule
You are the king's now.
Well are you fitted, had you but a Moor:
Till Harry's back-return again to France:
On terms of base compulsion! Can it be
My head as I do his.
I was a man: all would not do. A plague of all
Arraigning his unkindness with my soul;
Do or undo, as if ourself were here.
Why, that the Moor first gave to Desdemona;
With all my heart.
Break up this capon.
My credit now stands on such slippery ground,
Charles, I thank thee for thy love to me, which
Enter PRINCE HENRY, SALISBURY, and BIGOT
I do not know dat
Thou coward, art thou bragging to the stars,
In the rare semblance that I loved it first.
I warrant, good creature, wheresoe'er she is,
You understand me?
Since we can not atone you, we shall see
There's four or five, to great Saint Jaques bound,
Exeunt
The winter coming on and sickness growing
Winchester.
The cover of the wings of grasshoppers,
Of the wars' surfeits, to go rove with one
And yet with charity. He was a man
Being no further enemy to you
Till, like a boy, you see him cringe his face,
You shall not bob us out of our melody: if you do,
When that the poor have cried, Caesar hath wept:
I am here with thee and thy goats, as the most
Patience, good lady; wizards know their times:
And make us even with you. My thanes and kinsmen,
Farewell! a long farewell, to all my greatness!
Faith, how easy?
Above ten thousand meaner moveables
And I'll be gone, sir, and not trouble you.
Than to repute himself a son of Rome
Pitchers have ears.
us.
Allot thee for his lovely bed-fellow!
was done to Elbow's wife, that he hath cause to
O, vengeance!
Yes, and a gentlewoman's son.
Ay, my lord.
No, not a whit.
Which buys admittance; oft it doth; yea, and makes
Read it.
Thou hast not, cousin;
Master, if you do, expect spoon-meat; or bespeak a
If you were men, as men you are in show,
Since he's so great can make his will his act,
Yet he spurs on. Now they are almost on him.
of the south, the guts-griping, ruptures, catarrhs,
Thou tell'st me there is murder in mine eye:
shot out in our latter times.
the recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine
And, on my trust, a man that never yet
What is become of Bushy? where is Green?
When slanders do not live in tongues;
To hang a doubt on; or woe upon thy life!
and eat, I swear--
The want that makes him lean. Who dares, who dares,
so he then took her to be, who began to be much
For in the shade of death I shall find joy;
And then I'll come and be thy waggoner,
Do but behold the tears that swell in me,
The breath no sooner left his father's body,
It makes the course of thoughts to fetch about,
talk with Margaret,
rivelled fee-simple of the tetter, take and take
It serves you well, my lord, to say so much.
respect it is not in the court, it is tedious. As
Speak to me home, mince not the general tongue:
Will soon be levied. Herald, save thou thy labour;
If it proves so, then loving goes by haps:
Of thee and me, and sighs, and takes my glove,
Take them away.
This match'd with other did, my gracious lord;
converse with a dumb-show? How oddly he is suited!
And, his corruption being ta'en from us,
Is she kind as she is fair?
Hath Britain all the sun that shines? Day, night,
For the benefit of silence, would thou wert so too!
But what compact mean you to have with us?
Be shrived and married. Here is for thy pains.
That fair for which love groan'd for and would die,
How! is this true?
expound the meaning or moral of his signs and tokens.
Endeavor'd my advancement to the throne:
In which array, brave soldier, doth he lie,
Here is a place reserved, sir.
undiscovered. But 'tis all one to me; for had I
For I would commune with you of such things
It is an heretic that makes the fire,
I am the shadow of poor Buckingham,
Winning will put any man into courage. If I could
Nay, go not from me; I will follow thee.
Fair ladies, you drop manna in the way
Instead of gold, we'll offer up our arms:
approach; and, in her invention and Ford's wife's
No, sir, not I; I came from Syracuse.
charge nature,
I will encounter with Andronicus,
Cousin of Hereford, what dost thou object
A hell-hound that doth hunt us all to death:
Lucilius' Servant	So much?
Of disobedient opposition
And let thy blows, doubly redoubled,
That banish what they sue for; redeem thy brother
For that's my business to you--that you three
But it was famed with more than with one man?
Shall it not grieve thee dearer than thy death,
That thou dost love my daughter from thy soul:
terror in the youth: he will find it comes from a
To that destruction which I'll guard them from,
When thou wert regent for our sovereign,
Straight after did I meet him with a chain.
To grow there and to bear,--'Let me not live,'--
Shall I have justice? what says Jupiter?
Unplagued with corns will have a bout with you.
To appease their groaning shadows that are gone.
That goddess blind,
the image of it leaves him he must run mad.
Your weak condition to the raw cold morning.
Farewell.
As true we are as flesh and blood can be:
The confident and over-lusty French
What's your dark meaning, mouse, of this light word?
Think'st thou I am so shallow, so conceitless,
And your great flow of debts. My loved lord,
You grave but reckless senators, have you thus
Can buy this unprized precious maid of me.
She can scarce be there yet.
Are you of fourscore pounds a year?
Tears the letter
But see what heaven can do! By this our change,
Take hence the rest, and give them burial here.
Which you say adds to nature, is an art
And make the silken strings delight to kiss them,
Tut, you saw her fair, none else being by,
Yesterday took: Troy holds him very dear.
Her foes shake like a field of beaten corn,
Articles are borrowed of the pronoun, and be thus
Now I begin to relish thy advice;
I'll attend your lordship.
We have dispatch'd the duke, as he commanded.
How would he hang his slender gilded wings,
If his own life answer the straitness of his
With any long'd-for change or better state.
county. What fashion will you wear the garland of?
Keeping them prisoner underneath her wings.
I will be bright, and shine in pearl and gold,
Since night you loved me; yet since night you left
O Clifford, how thy words revive my heart!
Clarence and Gloucester, love my lovely queen;
No good at all that I can do for him;
That e'er our hearts shall make!
toads carbonadoed.
Then with directions to repair to Ravenspurgh.
The horned herd! for I have savage cause;
That Edward shall be fearful of his life,
[To LUCILIUS]           Love you the maid?
Now, by the gods, I pity his misfortune,
Come, sirs.
himself. Certainly the Jew is the very devil
Still to return your own.
She's such a one, that, were I well assured
And sin to break it.
Come on, then; I will swear to study so,
When thou wakest, let love forbid
Would we had all such wives, that the men might go
Were you but riding forth to air yourself,
Between the pass and fell incensed points
Ay, worthy Menenius; and with most prosperous
O, what a world is this, when what is comely
smiles not: I fear he will prove the weeping
And can digest as much: make no compare
With groaning wretches; and your task shall be,
Now, if you are a maid, answer to this.
That you foresee not what impediments
Unto the prince's heart of Calydon.
Come, poor remains of friends, rest on this rock.
Do what you will, dishonour shall be humour.
And plant in tyrants mild humility.
But thus, I trust, you will not marry her.
Yet a tailor might scratch her where'er she did itch:
My lord?
Enter Nurse and PETER
To buy a present for the emperor
Who lives that's not depraved or depraves?
pagan, most sweet Jew! if a Christian did not play
My hounds are bred out of the Spartan kind,
O miserable, unhappy that I am!
What he might be: if what he might he is not,
Of plain old form is much disfigured;
In those freckles live their savours:
Than death can yield me here by my abode.
boy, will be worth a Jewess' eye.
Now God help thee!
And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
What noise?
A valiant Greek, AEneas,--take his hand,--
[Aside]              Honest lord,
For so much trash as may be grasped thus?
'gree you now?
And warriors faint! why, 'twere perpetual shame.
Since lowly feigning was call'd compliment:
remain unseduced, you not making it appear
What willingly he did confound he wail'd,
Offering money
That some night-tripping fairy had exchanged
Of Charles his father.
'Tis Aufidius,
Thy hand is made to grasp a palmer's staff,
And won thy love, doing thee injuries;
Then speak again; not all thy former tale,
tribunal plebs, to take up a matter of brawl
And that I'll prove on better men than Somerset,
To teach thee safety! thou art perjured too,
We'll dress him up in voices: if he fail,
And bid him speak of patience;
favour with my lady about a bear-baiting here.
Wherein toward me my homely stars have fail'd
He finds thee in the stout Norweyan ranks,
Where ne'er from France arrived more happy men.
That thou hast power to shake my manhood thus;
My house was at the Phoenix? Wast thou mad,
And buried once, why not upon my head?
woman is a dish for the gods, if the devil dress her
Than can our reasons. There's no man in the world
If he, compact of jars, grow musical,
What is your study?
Thou losest here, a better where to find.
Ay, but give me worship and quietness;
How would he look, to see his work so noble
O, true, good Catesby: bid him levy straight
Or, he that slew her brothers and her uncles?
love a ballad but even too well, if it be doleful
Farewell, my hearts: I will to my honest knight
wrangle with mine own honesty. I'll entertain
urinal, that not an eye that sees you but is a
I must have patience to endure the load:
Then in my tent, Cassius, enlarge your griefs,
You will be schoolmaster
Mine eyes are made the fools o' the other senses,
my father's ambition! he was thinking of civil wars
To FLAVIUS
For worms, brave Percy: fare thee well, great heart!
I would I had not known him; it was the death of the
And set me up in hope? But hush! no more.
And follow you no further: let me go:
I myself have all the other,
And your three motives to the battle, with
With lustier maintenance than I did look for
Beware the thane of Fife. Dismiss me. Enough.
And so far will I trust thee, gentle Kate.
Pray now, your news?
The nature of bad news infects the teller.
Could I repair what she will wear in me,
Please you, my lord, there are certain
As if he were his officer: desperation
My uncle's will in this respect is mine:
Here's much to do with hate, but more with love.
Of my child's love: I think she will be ruled
The Moor! I know his trumpet.
Albeit unused to the melting mood,
My poverty, but not my will, consents.
Shall this his mock mock out of their dear husbands;
Rouse up thy youthful blood, be valiant and live.
Hath banish'd moody discontented fury,
Enter GONERIL
Marry, sir, to get a husband for her sister.
And think to wed it, he is so above me:
In such a night
Confederate in the fact: ay, more there was;
Is not this Stephano, my drunken butler?
I send it through the rivers of your blood,
Heaven bless us!
We have compounded on.
before the report come. If there be breadth enough
Some words there grew 'twixt Somerset and me;
And bid my cousin Ferdinand come hither:
Nay, then, come on, and take the chance of anger.
Enobarbus!
His powerful sound within an organ weak:
Know then, my name is Douglas;
It is not meet you know how Caesar loved you.
Mum, then, and no more. Proceed.
Let them be whipped through every market-town, till
men being in love have then a nobility in their
It shall be so; and at the other hill
Athwart men's noses as they lie asleep;
Descend, and open your uncharged ports:
Full of vexation come I, with complaint
O, wonderful!
That to my foes this body must be prey,
And with your speediest bring us what she says,
This is a gift that I have, simple, simple; a
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
Find written in the margent of his eyes.
My Lord of York, out of his noble nature,
I know, madam, you love your gentlewoman entirely.
Believe false teachers: though those that
Out of a fortitude of soul I feel,
Within rich Pisa walls, as any one
But since it would not, he had none of me.
And with a gad of steel will write these words,
Forget that rarest treasure of your cheek,
Ay, my lord.
why 'silver sound'? why 'music with her silver
Therefore make present satisfaction,
The roofs of palaces, and nature prompts them
Almost, sir: heaven restore me! Would I were
converted I know not, but methinks you look with
requesting your lordship to supply his instant use
And Dick the Butcher,--
eyes; there shall she see my valour, which will then
That he could gnaw a crust at two hours old
Good night, sir. My Octavia,
Do you hear, you minion? you'll let us in, I hope?
Acts of black night, abominable deeds,
The agent of thy foul inconstancy,
She says, you have it, and you may be gone.
The gods confound thee! dost thou hold there still?
The ship is under sail, and here she comes amain.
should sing.
'hic jacet.'
I have drawn her picture with my voice.
In this hard rock, whiles you do keep from me
Of the right reverend Cardinal of York.
To do some fatal execution?
The glory of our Troy doth this day lie
Within the bond of marriage, tell me, Brutus,
Where I espied the panther fast asleep.
That in a gondola were seen together
Why are you grown so rude? what change is this?
No more than from my soul I mourn for yours.
For in the marches here we heard you were,
And women too, but innocent and pure;
Rescued is Orleans from the English
And Valentine I'll hold an enemy,
Or is it fantasy that plays upon our eyesight?
Get fire and meat for these poor men:
Chattels, and whatsoever, and to be
That touch me near, wherein thou must be secret.
And, if I fall not in my deep intent,
son,
SCENE VII. Macbeth's castle.
Are empty trunks o'erflourish'd by the devil.
Here GLOUCESTER's men beat out BISHOP OF  WINCHESTER's men, and enter in the hurly- burly the Mayor of London and his Officers
Exit
We might recover all our loss again;
SCENE IV. A room in DOCTOR CAIUS' house.
And when came George from Burgundy to England?
Good even, Casca: brought you Caesar home?
Sir, a Chartreux friar,
And all for use of that which is mine own.
Fancies too weak for boys, too green and idle
But he's an arrant knave.
none but good house-holders, yeoman's sons; inquire
Both from his enterprise and from the world,
Ajax renown'd. O heavens, what some men do,
O husband, God doth know you dined at home;
Nay, that's not next.--Hark! who is't that knocks?
Of that report which I so oft have heard.
For where is any author in the world
Nay, I prithee, put on this gown and this beard;
There's more behind that is more gratulate.
Wears out his time, much like his master's ass,
let it be concealed awhile.
And twenty times made pause to sob and weep,
Exit
Some tricks of desperation. All but mariners
Till Henry Bolingbroke, Duke of Lancaster,
For look how fresh she looks! They were too rough
My weaved-up folly? Gentle Northumberland,
If thou say so, withdraw, and prove it too.
Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven,
Shout within
Speak, man.
Horns winded within
Come, go along, and see the truth hereof;
Think it a bastard, whom the oracle
ALONSO sleeps. Exit ARIEL
Marry, and shall, and very willingly.
A laughter.
And here again; that I may rest assured
Made him give battle to the lioness,
Strangely neglected? when did he regard
No matter whither, so you come not here.
Stain all your edges on me. Boy! false hound!
Ay; you did wish that I would make her turn:
And made a gap in nature.
time enough to go home. What shall I say I have
in it. A villanous coward! Go thy ways, old Jack;
By this you shall not know,
For selfsame wind that I should speak withal
horse; for it is all the wealth that he hath left,
Let us withdraw; 'twill be a storm.
Pardonnez-moi, I cannot tell vat is 'like me.'
CASCA first, then the other Conspirators and BRUTUS stab CAESAR
'larum of jealousy, comes me in the instant of our
But didst thou hear without wondering how thy name
Which in the soldier is flat blasphemy.
To you I speak.
How far you satisfied me.
[Aside]  Peace! stir not.
Even at thy teat thou hadst thy tyranny.
long peace, ten times more dishonourable ragged than
Exeunt
I humbly thank you, sir. Dost know this water-fly?
Hugh Capet also, who usurped the crown
No better, if you please.
Our fealty and Tenantius' right
Most thankfully, my lord.
Tailor, I'll pay thee for thy gown tomorrow:
You need but plead your honourable privilege.
Arthur, that great forerunner of thy blood,
my brother; whose loss of his most precious queen
Hath he ask'd for me?
The more my fault
Faint-hearted Woodvile, prizest him 'fore me?
Sweet doctor, you shall be my bed-fellow:
to corrupt a saint. Thou hast done much harm upon
I have sent to seek him, and to find the body.
SCENE IV. A room in LEONATO'S house.
Will prove too bloody, and the end of it
goose-quills and dare scarce come thither.
That, sir, which I will not report after her.
I will help you, if I can:
Art thou Timandra?
To see the things thou dost not. Now, now, now, now:
Helen's cheek, but not her heart,
I'll mend it, and then play.
'Twas a good sensible fellow: well.
And at this time most easy 'tis to do't,
It was myself, my brother and his son,
Nay, now you are too flat
Touches his friend, which craves to be remember'd
How now, sir! have you that I sent you for?
not stay for him to kill him? have I not, at de place
To lose so bad employment; in the which
Has he disciplined Aufidius soundly?
Defile the locks of your shrill-shrieking daughters;
Exit
To one that can my part in him advertise;
And then awake as from a pleasant sleep.
Not one accompanying his declining foot.
They converse apart
He's a traitor.
Religiously they ask a sacrifice:
He might have took his answer long ago.
cause to use thee with a serious industry, that is,
good jests of him. Pray you, uncle, tell Mistress
Good morrow, general.
Tarry, sweet soul, for mine, then fly abreast,
nothing but rail; nor no railing in a known discreet
For me to joy and weep their gain and loss:
We are all undone.
The heavens give safety to your purposes!
The beds i' the east are soft; and thanks to you,
Besides, thy staying will abridge thy life.
Hear'st thou the news abroad, who are arrived?
sucking dove; I will roar you an 'twere any
I will appeach the villain.
Ere I learn love, I'll practise to obey.
What is the remedy?
Be stronger with thee than the name of wife?
wholly depends on your abode.
To a most base and vile-concluded peace.
The thing why thou hast drawn it.
Exit
Well, there went but a pair of shears between us.
Than one on's ears to hear it? Proceed, Cominius.
Thou shalt be punish'd for thus frighting me,
You are a gentleman and a gamester, sir.
To buy apparel 'gainst the wedding-day.
In mine own country, lords.
We'll leave you for this time: go in and rest.
My lord; I do confess I ne'er was married;
The loyalty well held to fools does make
This will so fright them both that they will kill
Is nor of heaven nor earth, for these are pleased.
Drawing her aside
I know your favour, Lord Ulysses, well.
Your grief, the common grief of all the land.
To set my brother Clarence and the king
The Earl of Westmoreland, seven thousand strong,
I do, Mark Antony.
The manner of your bearing towards him, with
Our Caesar's vesture wounded? Look you here,
So hated, and so banish'd: but he has a merit,
Mine honour lives when his dishonour dies,
Due for a chain your husband had of him.
A third thinks, without expense at all,
Go, signify as much, while here we march
Might in their working do you that offence,
You shall know now that I am in estimation; you shall
Opposed, as it must be, by the power of the king:
Good words the other day of a bay courser
Farewell, thou lob of spirits; I'll be gone:
We shall all be shent. Run in here, good young man;
Satisfy!
I crave no more than what your highness offer'd,
Moe than you rob: take wealth and lives together;
To have found a safe redress; but now grow fearful,
My man's abode where I did leave him: he
If she and I be pleased, what's that to you?
'Tis like a chime a-mending; with terms unsquared,
How every fool can play upon the word! I think the
Where doth the world thrust forth a vanity--
Their counsels and their cares, digest things rightly
And this, indeed, O world, the heart of thee.
But by the ear, that hears most nobly of him:
Some violent hands were laid on Humphrey's life!
At whose conception, till Lucina reign'd,
plain highway of talk, that the good Antonio, the
Faith, I'll not meddle in't. Let her be as she is:
Go therefore, tell thy master here I am;
Bear hence his body; I will help to bury it.
Exit SUFFOLK
We'll wait upon you.
Thou hast not done before.
DON
Troth, sir, all is in his hands above: but
[Aside]  O heavens, this is my true-begotten father!
Roger had issue, Edmund, Anne and Eleanor.
it.
Married your royalty, was wife to your place;
Well, somewhat we must do. Come, cousin, I'll
[Aside to CLARENCE]  The ghostly father now hath done
And thou shalt have twelve thousand fighting men!
And, for an onset, Titus, to advance
I freely told you, all the wealth I had
And keep eternal spring-time on thy face,
If any bark put forth, come to the mart,
Come on, strike up!
A horse! a horse! my kingdom for a horse!
if you saw him.
that
A servant only, and a gentleman
Shall be the maws of kites.
Or dead, or sleeping on him? But dead rather;
Thine enmity's most capital: thou barr'st us
Thou art my brother; so we'll hold thee ever.
Miss that which one unworthier may attain,
Congreeing in a full and natural close,
Which way is he, in the name of sanctity? If all
have a stoup of wine; and here without are a brace
Let's make no stay.
make an exchange; therefore discase thee instantly,
In heaps and piles of ruin.
Enter, and cry 'The Dauphin!' presently,
I prithee, noble friend, home to thy house;
Fell bravely and were slain,
Within a quarter of an hour.
Sweet prince, the untainted virtue of your years
with the story of the Prodigal, fresh and new. Go
More than the locking-up the spirits a time,
Let it presage the ruin of your love
Thy latest words. In the reproof of chance
Hear you, cousin; a word.
beard ere the black ones were there. To say 'ay'
Exceeding those that I can wish upon thee,
And never suffers matter of the world
Lest barbarism, making me the precedent,
But do not look for further recompense
ne'er have denied his occasion so many talents.
And scout 'em and flout 'em
Some ditch wherein to die; the foul'st best fits
Ere thou hadst power or we had cause of fear,
He'll so awake as she in fury shall
To be a speaker free; when I am hence
That pure congealed white, high Taurus snow,
Here of these shores?
My lord, they stay for you to give your daughter to
Is this your perfectness? be gone, you rogue!
Leonato and his brother. What thinkest thou? Had
this civil buffeting hold, we shall buy maidenheads
Who art the table wherein all my thoughts
O, sir, his lackey, for all the world caparisoned
Cast off his chains of bondage and embrace
The mirror of all courtesy;--
That worthied him, got praises of the king
With message unto princely Pericles;
Exeunt PAGE, SHALLOW, and SLENDER
lads in Eastcheap. They call drinking deep, dyeing
And a most instant tetter bark'd about,
Thorough the streets of Rome?
Nay, indeed, if you had your eyes, you might fail of
Most constantly.
Alarum continues still afar off
I have observed thee always for a towardly prompt
Look, what I speak, or do, or think to do,
With some fine colour that may please the eye
The commons hast thou rack'd; the clergy's bags
What a fool is she, that knows I am a maid,
Being but the one half of an entire sum
Not me begotten of a shepherd swain,
often burst and now repaired with knots; one girth
When with his knees he kiss'd the Cretan strand.
I see thee compass'd with thy kingdom's pearl,
fairer. He that is proud eats up himself: pride is
My good Lysander!
The match is made, and all is done:
I must hear from thee every day in the hour,
Perhaps, him and her, sir: what have you to do?
Please you, retire to your chamber.
Why, sir?
Therefore this article is made in vain,
Well, for this night we will repose us here:
Varro's
Exit
be sad: I fear you have sold your own lands to see
Though calved i' the porch o' the Capitol--
Of such as your oppression feeds upon,
Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
jack-an-ape to Anne Page.
Sir,
But to prove to you that Helen loves him: she came
knife, tape, glove, shoe-tie, bracelet, horn-ring,
Proceeded well, to stop all good proceeding!
As princes do their courts, when they are cloy'd
Welcome from Egypt, sir.
No, sir, the worse.
Some twenty years.
privilege I have with the parents of the foresaid
Since I nor wax nor honey can bring home,
That Talbot is but shadow of himself?
at this line: let me see, let me see--
Our tongues and sorrows do sound deep
'Tis not his wont to be the hindmost man,
That thus we die, while remiss traitors sleep.
Or blessed was't we did?
I do but partly know, sir: it is music in parts.
Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave
Exeunt MARK ANTONY and EUPHRONIUS
ACT V
There's none protector of the realm but I.
With fearful bravery, thinking by this face
Touching the weal o' the common, you shall find
[Aside to SEBASTIAN]  Let it be to-night;
What mean you, sir? for God's sake, hold your hands!
Is this certain?
Who is thy grandfather: he made those clothes,
proverbs: he will give the devil his due.
I wish your horses swift and sure of foot;
Of Essex, Norfolk, Suffolk, nor of Kent,
Rather than render back, out with your knives,
Here comes fair Mistress Anne.
If I mistake not, thou art Harry Monmouth.
He fastened on my neck, and bellow'd out
That in these several places of the city
And wash their hands in Bassianus' blood.
To the monument!
We recommend to you, tribunes of the people,
these are they. Thou art very Trinculo indeed! How
For both hast thou, and both become the grave.
ACT IV
The honour and regard of such a father.
Come hither, good Volumnius; list a word.
Hath made us forward. But, my gentle queen,
Let him that will a screech-owl aye be call'd,
Nor I.
I did imagine what would be her refuge.
withal and who he stands still withal.
SCENE III. The Grecian camp. Before Achilles' tent.
Beheaded publicly for his offence.
And when he falls, he falls like Lucifer,
ACT IV
Within two hours.
Have given you here a third of mine own life,
'A tedious brief scene of young Pyramus
That thou turn rascal; hadst thou wealth again,
Exeunt
And, if you will, tell what hath happened,
Being cross'd in conference by some senators.
Worthy Andronicus, ill art thou repaid
There was a friar told me of this man.
Are you there, butcher? O, I cannot speak!
By so much fills their hearts with deadly hate.
Stand in assured loss: take up, take up;
I will look further into't: and I have a disguise
ACT V
manhood, what an arrant, rascally, beggarly, lousy
My father's brother, but no more like my father
Cannot be quiet scarce a breathing-while,
rest on's body cold. Look, here comes a walking fire.
He plucks it out of his bosom and reads it
To-morrow morning come you to my house,
Your king and Warwick's, and must have my will.
A scatter'd smile, and that I'll live upon.
Against my fire; and wast thou fain, poor father,
You may depend hereafter. Come, my lord.
Well, sir, good night.
Discover more at large what cause that was,
Then know, that from my soul I love thy daughter.
All follow this, and come to dust.
I tell you, he does sit in gold, his eye
How now, sweet queen!
But who knows nothing, is once seen to smile;
that I might see.
'Tis but his policy to counterfeit,
Patroclus ta'en or slain, and Palamedes
Your answer, sir, is enigmatical:
O, pardon; I offend.
DON
Being a murderer, though he were my brother.
So that, by this, you would not have him die.
How fares your majesty?
O detestable villain! call'st thou that trimming?
Salute thee for her king: till then, fair boy,
Do wound the bark, the skin of our fruit-trees,
Where is the thousand marks thou hadst of me?
so free, so kind, so apt, so blessed a disposition,
I'ld play incessantly upon these jades,
Is to the court, and there ye shall be my guests:
diffidences, banishment of friends, dissipation
ACT III
The milk thou suck'dst from her did turn to marble;
Good signior, take the stranger to my house
The multitudinous tongue; let them not lick
Twenty-three years, and saw myself unbreech'd,
His thinkings are below the moon, not worth
Saint Bennet, sir, may put you in mind; one, two, three.
SCENE II:
Worthy Saint Michael and the Golden Fleece;
Widow! Charmian, hark.
His steeds to water at those springs
Good, i' faith. Come, begin.
That I am that same wall; the truth is so:
Exeunt Senators
His sole child, my lord, and bequeathed to my
Those same noble Scots
Re-enter BOULT
I am not worth this coil that's made for me.
casement of my closet.
To his protection, calls him Posthumus Leonatus,
The hopes of court! my hopes in heaven do dwell.
and 'gentleman.'
I pray for no man but myself:
And needly will be rank'd with other griefs,
Had he a hand to write this? a heart and brain
Or sound so base a parle, my teeth shall tear
thank God you are rid of a knave.
You sulphurous and thought-executing fires,
White his shroud as the mountain snow,--
Of her contaminated carrion weight,
Exit
Speak thou no more, if all the rest will speed.
For idleness itself.
Fie, coward woman and soft-hearted wretch!
A most acute juvenal; voluble and free of grace!
The knight opposed.
Why I will fight with him upon this theme
Come hither, gentlemen,
if my brother wrought by my pity, it should not be
Well, more gold: what then?
Does not divide the Sunday from the week;
You promised, when you parted with the king,
Among the crowd i' the Abbey; where a finger
the prince your brother; spare not to tell him that
How with mine honour may I give him that
Makes a pass at CASSIO
You know me by my habit.
As loath to bear me to the slaughter-house.
Have I with all my full affections
Even at that news he dies; and then the hearts
Foreknowing that the truth will fall out so.
They are not ever jealous for the cause,
What you in wisdom still vouchsafe to say.
Upon my target three fair-shining suns.
Give me some ink and paper in my tent
I'll be with thee betimes.
That holds this present question in the court?
The fortunes and affairs of noble Brutus
Though all things foul would wear the brows of grace,
By being so verbal: and learn now, for all,
That good convenience claims.
a lady; I have been politic with my friend, smooth
melancholy of mine own, compounded of many simples,
'Tis known, Achilles, that you are in love
To-morrow morning to the council-board
Creaking my shoes on the plain masonry,
All those which were his fellows but of late,
Which they would have the profferer construe 'ay.'
That I can match her.
A bed-swerver, even as bad as those
That I protest I simply am a maid.
Exit MOTH
companies, slaves as ragged as Lazarus in the
Then why should he despair that knows to court it
That Brutus leads me on.
I am freely dissolved, and dissolutely.
Here come the Lords of Ross and Willoughby,
The cordial of mine age to glad my heart!
allow of thy wits, and fear to kill a woodcock, lest
Enter ANTONY
But this exceeding posting day and night
Thy banks with pioned and twilled brims,
Thy evil spirit, Brutus.
as sure as his guts are made of puddings.
Take not her part; for, if thou dost intend
Slubber not business for my sake, Bassanio
So did I too; and he swore he would marry her to-night.
I know you have determined to bestow her
And though 'tis wonder that enwraps me thus,
That beggars mounted run their horse to death.
No, gracious lord, except I cannot do it.
I'll buckler thee against a million.
Re-enter Second and Third Fishermen, drawing up a net
Where is Antony?
released and delivered over to the king her father,
He made confession of you,
To sing a requiem and such rest to her
SCENE I. Britain. A hall in Cymbeline's palace.
Did warrant me was likely.
Albeit I will confess thy father's wealth
What both you spur and stop.
Then how or which way should they first break in?
I trouble thee too much, but thou art willing.
SCENE I. Forres. The palace.
Lies the true proof of men: the sea being smooth,
Troth, and I have a bag of money here troubles me:
Nor lead me, like a firebrand, in the dark
appears, it will bate.
Enter Chorus
once to all the points o' the compass.
Please your lordship, here is the wine.
And our return, to excuse: but first, how get hence:
And such barren plants are set before us, that we
He is our cousin, cousin; but 'tis doubt,
Hector will challenge him.
If thou wert sensible of courtesy,
Nay, if you stare, we shall hear more anon.
Marcius coming home!
When King Cophetua loved the beggar-maid!
And take upon command what help we have
Madam, I trust, not so.
It follows in his thought that I am he.
That wrought upon thee so preposterously
In the old time of war, would shake the press,
And hath detain'd me all my flowering youth
shillings and sixpence' and 'You are welcome,' with
Did flesh his puny sword in Frenchmen's blood!
This is the place; there, where the torch doth burn.
than himself
The same, my lord, and your poor servant ever.
called Mile-end, to instruct for the doubling of
Gloucester,
Nay, come, your hands and lips must seal it too:
The servant of this armourer, my lords.
tailor make thy doublet of changeable taffeta, for
Yea, and text underneath, 'Here dwells Benedick the
And fashion your demeanor to my looks,
That thieves do pass on thieves? 'Tis very pregnant,
Write, write, that from the bloody course of war
CAIUS MARCIUS CORIOLANUS! Bear
Exeunt BERTRAM and LAFEU
[Aside]  I'll blast his harvest, if your head were laid;
I think the policy of that purpose made more in the
They fight, and EDGAR knocks him down
Wherein Olivia may seem serviceable?
Ingrateful Rome requites with foul contempt,
counterfeit advantages, though true advantage never
Till candles and starlight and moonshine be out.
Go to the bay and disembark my coffers:
condition, but therewithal the unruly waywardness
Please you to do't,
street about you, sir, but I marked him not; and yet
Whether the three Worthies shall come in or no.
And of the loyal service of his son,
point. O, the most piteous cry of the poor souls!
The slave, a member of the country's peace,
Where Reignier sooner will receive than give.
Exeunt
Where, like a sweet melodious bird, it sung
Convenient numbers to make good the city;
O mighty Caesar! dost thou lie so low?
And his to me:
The empress' sons, I take them, Chiron and Demetrius.
Humanity must perforce prey on itself,
our absence makes us unthrifty to our knowledge.
Reprove my allegation, if you can;
For once allow'd the skilful pilot's charge?
Into what pitch he please.
Hector, in view of Trojans and of Greeks,
Let him demand his fill.
Well, sir, here is for your pains. What said she?
Save in the constant image of the creature
Therefore no more of it: hear other things.
And they watch too. Now, 'mongst this flock of drunkards,
Even to my person, than I thought he would
I see the trick on't: here was a consent,
Which the impetuous blasts, with eyeless rage,
Sees and knows more, much more, than he unfolds.
You bear a gentle mind, and heavenly blessings
Bushy, what news?
So runs against all reason.
our unlawful intents? We shall not then have his
creatures; their mastiffs are of unmatchable courage.
of virtue, answer me.
I see old Gaunt alive; O, then, my father,
My lord, I scarce have leisure to salute you,
You would have thought the very windows spake,
Ay, but she'll think that it is spoke in hate.
Pinch him for his villany;
Let what is dear in Sicily be cheap:
O! my fear interprets: what, is he dead?
Thou madst thine enemies shake, as if the world
for look you, Francis, your white canvas doublet
If I want gold, steal but a beggar's dog,
Thou wouldst not have mourn'd so much for me.
There's my exchange:
Why art thou old, and want'st experience?
Twenty to one then he is shipp'd already,
Your most sweet voices: now you have left
It will not let you eat, nor talk, nor sleep,
Indies; I understand moreover, upon the Rialto, he
with a distempered appetite. To be generous,
True, noble prince.
I holp to frame thee. Do you know this lady?
The Archbishop's grace of York, Douglas, Mortimer,
Proposed for the deserver! O gentle Pandarus,
With knaves that smell of sweat: say this
Are then most humble; I have no ambition
Hark! the drums
into amazement and admiration.
A dish that I do love to feed upon.
To bear it tamely; touch me with noble anger,
Hail, heaven!
The sixth part of his substance, to be levied
guiltless and of free disposition, is to take those
And the Athenian woman by his side:
To let him live: where he arrives he moves
Whom thou hast poison'd too:
I fear too much rubbing. Good night, my good owl.
O, this it is that makes your lady mourn!
What minstrelsy, and pretty din,
Enter Gentleman
Before I make reply to aught you say.
Most holy and religious fear it is
See, how she leans her cheek upon her hand!
Antonio, O my dear Antonio!
Ha, ha! are you honest?
He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
The devil to his fellow and delight
That may convey my greetings, love, to thee.
backward: I am sure he had more hair of his tail
cap. By my troth, I am sick.
What is aught, but as 'tis valued?
have the first choice. Follow me, girls.
He hath brought many captives home to Rome
As if our hands, our sides, voices and minds,
brazed to it.
As I am truly given to understand,
Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed
Bring me no more reports; let them fly all:
Since thou hast sought to make us break our vow,
To put you to't. But come; our dance, I pray:
Witness the fortune he hath had in France.
I say, I will make him eat some part of my leek, or
My best endeavours shall be done herein.
The lark, that tirra-lyra chants,
Ye are too bold:
Ay; or else one must come in with a bush of thorns
These dreadful summoners grace. I am a man
O, tell me when my lips do touch his cheeks,
Death is a fearful thing.
Who at Philippi the good Brutus ghosted,
Startles mine eyes, and makes me more amazed
And in thy sons, fair slips of such a stock.
Already, will their good thoughts call from him.
There's some among you have beheld me fighting:
A sight to vex the father's soul withal.
As heavens forefend!--your ruin; marry her,
Exeunt
Enter SILVIUS and PHEBE
I may not, madam:
SCENE I. A churchyard.
Though they would swear down each particular saint,
Good bawcock, bate thy rage; use lenity, sweet chuck!
It is a pretty youth: not very pretty:
That every minute of his being thrusts
Assure thyself my love is buried.
Good ancient, you are welcome.
Mine eyes are not o' the best: I'll tell you straight.
would, sir, as my father shall specify--
Commend me to thy brother, Edmund York.
And work confusion on his enemies.
Open the gates; 'tis Gloucester that calls.
But pity her.
And sleep and snore, and rend apparel out;--
Was nothing but mutation, ay, and that
requisites in him that folly and green minds look
No, holy father; throw away that thought;
Canst thou not speak? O traitors! murderers!
By heaven, fond wretch, thou knowist not what thou speak'st,
Make me revenger. Bear the king's son's body
Whom their o'er-cloyed country vomits forth
Dat is as it sall please de roi mon pere.
After the prompter, for our entrance:
Since then hath made between them. Unto her
My sword should bite it: not the dreadful spout
You know not what it is.
to come unarmed to my tent, and to procure
And let the nurse this night sit up with you;
That down fell priest and book and book and priest:
readiness is all: since no man has aught of what he
A ministering angel shall my sister be,
Can never turn the swan's black legs to white,
And time is at his period.
To countenance this horror! Ring the bell.
Good Norfolk, hie thee to thy charge;
A noble fellow, I warrant him.
should he learn our language? I will give him some
The untimely fall of virtuous Lancaster.
Deliver all with charity.
Flourish. The King and his train enter the town
a state of evil that they will not admit any good
Come, come, you mock me; this is not the way
sent to find those persons whose names are here
It is not fit your lordship should undertake every
Signior?
Exeunt KING LEAR, GLOUCESTER, KENT, and Fool
complexion.
By that time will our book, I think, be drawn
Why, boy! why, wag! how now! what's the matter?
To rive their dangerous artillery
sirrah, for all you are my man, go wait upon my
For well I wot the empress never wags
And, countrymen, my loving followers,
An if thou wilt not tell me all things true.
With ruffs and cuffs and fardingales and things;
This note doth tell me of ten thousand French
While he enjoys the honour and his ease.
To what we fear of death.
Entreat some power to change this currish Jew.
Well, I will love, write, sigh, pray, sue and groan:
For ever will I walk upon my knees,
And now, good sweet, say thy opinion,
than to hear you. If you be not mad, be gone; if
else holds fashion: a burning devil take them!
Coriolanus' exile. Now he's coming;
Give sorrow words: the grief that does not speak
Though Nestor swear the jest be laughable.
my case. The spite of man prevaileth against me. O
afore Michaelmas?
of visitors.
To Henry Bolingbroke.
Dies
Do thy right nature.
sufficient testimony that I have enjoyed the dearest
And she steal love's sweet bait from fearful hooks:
private, it is a very vile life. Now, in respect it
As ever sigh'd upon a midnight pillow:
To hear good counsel: O, what learning is!
house between ten and eleven.
Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
That in the natures of their lords rebel;
'My lady's father'! my lord's knave: your
when thou needest him, there thou shalt find him.
With folded arms. This poor right hand of mine
Ah, Warwick, Warwick! wert thou as we are.
See if thou canst outface me with thy looks:
To half a soul and to a notion crazed
I know thee too; and more than that I know thee,
Woe, alas!
It is against my will; for I desire
As both of you--God pardon it!--have done,
A better guiding spirit! What needs these hands?
Ah, hark! the fatal followers do pursue;
We coldly pause for thee; Chatillon, speak.
Rear up his body; wring him by the nose.
What sayest thou, bully Bottom?
Empty the basket, I say!
For he is set so only to himself
it is no matter how witty, so it be eloquent and fun
How I may formally in person bear me
with clean hands.
Whose golden touch could soften steel and stones,
The stale of horses, and the gilded puddle
Of goodly thousands: but, for all this,
So, if a son that is by his father sent about
Madam, my instrument's in tune.
As surfeit is the father of much fast,
By him that justly may
This punk is one of Cupid's carriers:
Bewray'd the faintness of my master's heart.
For what I will, I will, and there an end.
'Go tell false Edward, thy supposed king,
'Tis Alcibiades, and some twenty horse,
Marry, this it is, sir.
O reverend tribunes! O gentle, aged men!
My soul is full of discord and dismay.
Say, I would die.
The squirrel's hoard, and fetch thee new nuts.
Lord, how art thou changed! How dost thou and thy
appelez-vous le col?
Your lecture shall have leisure for as much.
head; that he gives entrance to such companions?
Good sir, to the purpose.
tricks which sorrow shoots
Peace, I say. Good even to you, friend.
SCENE IV. Outside Macbeth's castle.
As one relying on your lordship's will
As young as I am, I have observed these three
And therein reverenced for their lawful king:
With too much blood and too little brain, these two
We took this mattock and this spade from him,
By my hand, I had thought to have strucken him with
I must needs tell thee all. She hath directed
But Nature never framed a woman's heart
As would be cramm'd up in a sheet of paper,
And at that sight shall sad Apollo weep,
The sense of reckoning, if the opposed numbers
For through this laund anon the deer will come;
Which shows me many more; and some I see
With, ho! such bugs and goblins in my life,
I would not yield to be your house's guest;
Do, with like timorous accent and dire yell
And let it keep one shape, till custom make it
When such a one as she such is her neighbour?
Good morrow to your majesty and to my gracious mother.
From their abominable and beastly touches
I'll not be tied to hours nor 'pointed times,
She hath been fairer, madam, than she is:
Albany than Cornwall.
SCENE I. Rome. A street.
But such a one whose wrongs do suit with mine.
They lay hands on YORK, who struggles
How is it with you, lady?
You are like something that--What country-woman?
other circumstance. Good morrow; for, as I take it,
Sir, you and I have loved, but there's not it;
An idiot holds his bauble for a god
And that he does I weep: myself am Naples,
BISHOP
Can censure 'scape; back-wounding calumny
How tall was she?
and their consent of one direct way should be at
A charitable duty of my order.
Where they should be relieved. Two beggars told me
demand that truly which thou wouldst truly know.
At all a friend to truth.
I take it, by all voices, that forthwith
To make the truth appear where it seems hid,
A gallant knight he was, his name was Blunt;
So are we all.
Particularities and petty sounds
Ulysses,
He throws without distinction. Give me leave,
And for Rome's good. I'll tell thee what; yet go:
Enter OSWALD
Invited by your noble self, hath sent
In every point twice done and then done double
You being their mouths, why rule you not their teeth?
What is not holy, that we swear not by,
Give me thy poniard; you shall know, my boys
Of bell and burial.
My name is Edgar, and thy father's son.
And yet we hear not of our son-in-law.
I have a kind soul that would give you thanks
He who the sword of heaven will bear
Pompey, presently denied him rivality; would not let
Through the forest have I gone.
As matching to his youth and vanity,
All men but Proteus.
Very well, my liege.
Nay; I beseech you, mark it well.
Here cousin:
Laertes, was your father dear to you?
And crickets sing at the oven's mouth,
Sirrah, no more!
son's pranks too; who, I may say, is no honest man,
Wert thou an oracle to tell me so,
In penalty alike; and 'tis not hard, I think,
What I have done being young, or what would do
Nor, by my will, assubjugate his merit,
Would I had done't
Speak not so grossly. You are all amazed:
Mad as the sea and wind, when both contend
Who am no more but as the tops of trees,
me; scurvy, old, filthy, scurvy lord! Well, I must
For they do prank them in authority,
They may awake their helps to comfort them.
Feed yourselves with questioning;
And force them with a constancy, the cardinal
ACT V
Dead, if you will; but not to be his wife,
Not the world's mass of vanity could make me.
The games are done and Caesar is returning.
honourable gentleman: tricks he hath had in him,
Hath no man's dagger here a point for me?
Nothing but thunder! Merciful Heaven,
In no less working than are swords and bows
if I said his beard was not cut well, he was in the
Send forth your amorous token for fair Maudlin:
What would my lord?
Remains the censure of this hellish villain;
Under whose heavy sense your brother's life
Enter Blackamoors with music; MOTH; FERDINAND,  BIRON, LONGAVILLE, and DUMAIN, in Russian habits, and masked
Kneel thou down Philip, but rise more great,
I wis your grandam had a worser match.
It shall be so, it shall be so.
Lock'd in her monument. She had a prophesying fear
To think it should leave crying and say 'Ay.'
If he will not stand when he is bidden, he is none
Even on the instant.
Od's plessed will! I will not be absence at the grace.
Hast ta'en with equal thanks: and blest are those
Let thy courtesies alone, they are scurvy ones.
To come abroad?
Created, for his rare success in arms,
us to have mercy on him: at which time we will
As jewels purchased at an easy price;
Left solely heir to all his lands and goods,
Here, sir: I'ld have beaten him like a dog, but for
Exeunt
No; I rather added
Till you conclude that he upon whose side
But I bespoke you fair, and hurt you not.
So he dissolved, and showers of oaths did melt.
I am more serious than my custom: you
Now, what's the matter. Provost?
If I would stand against thee, would the reposal
Exit
Be it so.
Pity, you ancient stones, those tender babes
Wilt thou yet leave the battle, boy, and fly,
Can any thing be made of this?
That thought he could do more, a very little
That it was folly in me, thou mayst say,
The winds and persecutions of the sky.
Sixscore fat oxen standing in my stalls,
That thou hast practised on her with foul charms,
And like a sister am most loath to call
And from her fair and unpolluted flesh
Will think me speaking, though I swear to silence;
no black envy
In his abominations, turns you off;
Trip we after the night's shade:
I shall not dine at home;
No, Cassio is not kill'd.
In evil mixture to disorder wander,
Exit
It cannot countervail the exchange of joy
courtly and thou art too cunning. At whose request
SCENE I. France. The English camp.
You are too hard for me.
Varro's Servant	Is't not your business too?
And I, as I love Hastings with my heart!
I shall inform them.
Some means to come to shrift this afternoon;
Though Cloten then but young, you see, not wore him
Nay, if thou be that princely eagle's bird,
And ruminate himself, shall he be worshipp'd
Thy slanders I forgive; and therewithal
Away with him! and make a fire straight;
Hail, mortal!
Thou wilt o'ertake us, hence a mile or twain,
Giddy in spirit, still gazing in a doubt
DON
Which steals itself, when there's no mercy left.
He gave you all the duties of a man;
Examine every married lineament,
Is Cade the son of Henry the Fifth,
these clothes are good enough to drink in; and so be
Ha, do I perceive dat? have you make-a de sot of
Some poison'd by their wives: some sleeping kill'd;
And so say I.
Will you be prick'd in number of our friends;
Shall Ajax fight with Hector?
Exeunt
forth more islands.
Are we turn'd Turks, and to ourselves do that
Yea, signior, and depart when you bid me.
What, should I hurt her, strike her, kill her dead?
Till there be more matter in the shin.
With thy religious truth and modesty,
I do applaud thy spirit, Valentine,
Wherein the worship of the whole world lies.
And in this private plot be we the first
Or fill up chronicles in time to come,
I'll prove it on his body, if he dare,
Not so, my lord; for his valour cannot carry his
And may be so we shall.
A lack, how may I do it, having the hour limited,
Here, friend, 's another purse; in it a jewel
I would it were not notorious. Was this gentlewoman
Thou art an elm, my husband, I a vine,
take the court for Paris-garden? ye rude slaves,
Friends should associate friends in grief and woe:
I'll pour this pestilence into his ear,
I would not be so sick though for his place:
Thou diest within this hour.
Uncouple in the western valley; let them go:
attends your ladyship's pleasure.
Re-enter Ghost
In shape profane.
Most heavenly music!
Yet Hermia still loves you: then be content.
Signior Baptista, you are happily met.
Your rule direct to any; if to me.
did atone my countryman and you; it had been pity
Amen!
For more is to be said and to be done
Urge it no more; lest that, instead of words,
No, heaven so speed me in my time to come!
Being ordain'd his special governor,
Exeunt
Ever to get a boy.
For I have bought it with an hundred blows.
My pulse, as yours, doth temperately keep time,
Say, I command her to come to me.
To cull the plots of best advantages:
earth we make loam; and why of that loam, whereto he
Prithee, say true.
There is thy gold, worse poison to men's souls,
And thy commandment all alone shall live
To attend the emperor's person carefully:
Why seems it so particular with thee?
to Palestine for a touch of his nether lip.
Which, look'd on as it is, is nought but shadows
To warn false traitors from the like attempts.
Give me your arm:
But what is the sport, monsieur, that the ladies
Though all these English and their discipline
willingly, let him make a carbonado of me. I like
Bids the winds blow the earth into the sea,
There be some sports are painful, and their labour
Put out the light, and then put out the light:
Where that his lords desire him to have borne
Too hard an exclamation.
Presented thee more hideous than thou art.
Now, Richard, I am with thee here alone:
While kites and buzzards prey at liberty.
I am resolved.
That's but a trifle here.
Look after him and cannot do him good,
A Daniel come to judgment! yea, a Daniel!
I know not what I shall think of that: but I am
Think we King Harry strong;
Enter BIONDELLO
To you and toward your friend, whose love had spoke,
And when it's writ, for my sake read it over,
I do beseech you.
Though their injunction be to bar my doors,
This is Illyria, lady.
Mine, fifty talents.
Happily met, my lady and my wife!
though I did.
not.
Meet thee at Milford-Haven!--I forgot to ask him one
him; he hath a heart as sound as a bell and his
his master with a pursuivant presently: we'll hear
What say you to a piece of beef and mustard?
And is in full commission here for Cyprus.
You're sad, Signior Balthazar: pray God our cheer
Enter COSTARD
Are not with me esteem'd above thy life:
Now, had I not the dash of my former life in me,
Blessing of his heart!
But this is not the best. Look, prithee, Charmian,
That hast deceived so many with thy vows?
Into the market-place: there shall I try
welcome. I reckon this always, that a man is never
Under the colour of commending him,
And when you would say something that is sad,
[Aside]  Scarce can I speak, my choler is so great:
But yet to me they are strong. The queen his mother
lenten entertainment the players shall receive from
No grace? no womanhood? Ah, beastly creature!
My mother did but duty; such, my lord,
that he is given to prayer; he is something peevish
Enter AENEAS and Trojans
A doubtful warrant of immediate death;
Search for a jewel that too casually
Horses did neigh, and dying men did groan,
let that appear when there is no need of such
Good sooth, I care not for you.
On special dignities, which vacant lie
He and his forces enter the city
No, not a syllable:
Than I by letters shall direct your course.
I pray you all, tell me what they deserve
Few love to hear the sins they love to act;
At Eltham Place I told your majesty.
There to meet with Macbeth.
And so in progress to be hatch'd and born,
Which the false man does easy. I'll to England.
Which I was much unwilling to proceed in
So wildly?
Mine enemy has more power.
See! Antony, that revels long o' nights,
To play with mammets and to tilt with lips:
Good night and welcome, both at once, to those
Even from the gallows did his fell soul fleet,
And after this let Caesar seat him sure;
As you were fore-advised, had touch'd his spirit
Go, and be free again, as Suffolk's friend.
Enter OCTAVIUS, ANTONY, and their army
And therefore sit you down in gentleness
Re-enter QUEEN
Not I, my lord, unless I did bleed too.
The royal captain of this ruin'd band
Sitting down
How came it that the absent duke had not either
Poins! Poins, and be hanged! Poins!
Not my desert.
Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
mind's free,
Makes vow before his uncle never more
How now, my flesh, my child!
To-morrow night, when Phoebe doth behold
Hath into monstrous habits put the graces
Beat mine, inhoop'd, at odds. I will to Egypt:
SCENE II. The same.
Speak to the business, master-secretary:
No reckoning made, but sent to my account
have when you chid at Sir Proteus for going
One heart, one bed, two bosoms and one troth.
in.
When I did him at this advantage take,
To alter me: I stay here on my bond.
Which way would Hector have it?
Plaster you o'er, that you may be abhorr'd
Go, look after.
And prays you to believe him.
I have promised to study three years with the duke.
Find fairer fortune, if you ever wed!
Away! the tribunes do attend you: arm yourself
bride goes to that with shame which is her way to go
And, look, when I am king, claim thou of me
I'll show thee a precedent.
Ascend her chamber, hence and comfort her:
And being thus frighted swears a prayer or two
about him to-day, I can tell them that: and there's
And show of love as I was wont to have:
If you'll implore it, that will free your life,
What raiment will your honour wear to-day?
He cried upon it at the merest loss
Tell them how Edward put to death a citizen,
not but to do myself much right, or you much shame.
The devil damn thee black, thou cream-faced loon!
and be gone from Troilus: 'twill be his death;
But there I leave to love where I should love.
I thank you, valiant Cassio.
broken coxcomb. When you take occasions to see leeks
Therefore my son i' the ooze is bedded, and
Poor harmless lambs abide their enmity.
Belike the elder; Clarence will have the younger.
Mark'd you his lip and eyes?
Let have needful, but not lavish, means;
The eternal devil to keep his state in Rome
Mis-shapen chaos of well-seeming forms!
When from thy shore the tempest beat us back,
And, in reguerdon of that duty done,
O my friends,
It stands your grace upon to do him right.
And yet I needs must curse. But they'll nor pinch,
Forward, not permanent, sweet, not lasting,
As tediously as hell, but flies the grasps of love
'Tis gone, and will not answer.
Wishing his foot were equal with his eye,
Happy the parents of so fair a child;
Counter-gate, which is as hateful to me as the reek
That for my surety will refuse the boys!
exercises than formerly he hath appeared.
In will peculiar and in self-admission.
fellows and betray themselves to every modern
Ay, and more.
No traveller returns, puzzles the will
IMOGEN in bed, reading; a Lady attending
Is a plain fish, and, no doubt, marketable.
My substance should be statue in thy stead.
Alas, alas! Help, help! my lady's dead!
It is her habit only that is honest,
chamber: I'll be so bold as stay, sir, till she come
I will some other be, some Florentine,
Love you my son?
Enter ARTHUR
Her welcome friendly.
ACT I
You mistake, sir; I am sure no man hath any quarrel
A married life.
Good morrow, Lieutenant Bardolph.
O, never will I trust to speeches penn'd,
That all is done in reverend care of her;
And she will sing the song that pleaseth you
May I be bold to say so, sir?
But that the heavens fought: the king himself
Come the next Sabbath, and I will content you.
No certain life achieved by others' death.
Go, take their bodies hence.
But here, upon this bank and shoal of time,
The object and the pleasure of mine eye,
He had rather see the swords, and hear a drum, than
And look on their endeavour.
was a fishmonger: he is far gone, far gone: and
Then never dream on infamy, but go.
The scarecrow that affrights our children so.
And all of you clapp'd up together in
For I am he am born to tame you Kate,
This comfort with the like! But I have words
For thou, poor man, hast drown'd it with thine own.
Me shall you find ready and willing
Thy condemnation and thy death.
Shall lose the royalty of England's throne.
I here discard my sickness! Soul of Rome!
Come, we'll have you merry: I'll bring you where
Thou hast no weapon, and perforce must suffer.
I talk of that, that know it.
I dare be sworn I think that he is honest.
With the arm'd rest, courtiers and beauteous freedom,
To what tune pleased his ear; that now he was
food for thee.
If that an eye may profit by a tongue,
On, on, on, on, on! to the breach, to the breach!
Thou canst not, cardinal, devise a name
And that shall be the day, whene'er it lights,
Beyond thought's compass; that former fabulous story,
To enjoy thy banish'd lord and this great land!
Falstaff, that old white-bearded Satan.
it fitteth not a prelate so to plead.
Whose far unworthy deputy I am,
mark it. You say right, sir: o' Monday morning;
life: which if I can save, so; if not, honour comes
Draw lots who first shall die to lengthen life:
All this I see; and I see that the fashion wears
And banished I am, if but from thee.
O short-lived pride! Not fair? alack for woe!
I'll mend it with a largess. Take your paper too,
With urging helpless patience wouldst relieve me,
I think he will stand very strong with us.
By God, I cannot flatter; I do defy
O, a brave man!
That fill the court with quarrels, talk, and tailors.
What say you of Kent?
Give me Bianca for my patrimony.
How now! art thou mad?
Do you busy yourself about that?
There's nothing here that is too good for him
He doth fill fields with harness in the realm,
That head of thine doth not become a crown;
So, this was well ask'd,'twas so well perform'd.
serving-man a fresh tapster. Go; adieu.
The younges t daughter whom you hearken for
O villain! thou wilt be condemned into everlasting
Choose out some secret place, some reverend room,
Before thou make a trial of her love?
But since unwillingly, take them again.
Farewell!
And prove the period of their tyranny,
As I do long and wish to be a subject.
Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD IV, GLOUCESTER, CLARENCE,  and soldiers; with QUEEN MARGARET, OXFORD, and SOMERSET, prisoners
To match us in comparisons with dirt,
It is a man's office, but not yours.
But to the rest.
pray, can you read any thing you see?
And on the pieces of the broken wand
Thy name affrights me, in whose sound is death.
prince: I cannot tell, good sir, for which of his
So I do, sir.
Which of you saw Sir Eglamour of late?
And aid me with that store of power you have
This is the prettiest low-born lass that ever
He made her melancholy, sad, and heavy;
Is not parchment made of sheepskins?
Let me read them.
have your daughter covered with a Barbary horse;
A voluntary zeal and an unurged faith
Who is to be buried in't?
And many such-like liberties of sin:
And with indented glides did slip away
Exeunt, bearing the dead bodies
Re-enter RODERIGO
Cousin, go draw our puissance together.
'Tis his own blame; hath put himself from rest,
To Christian intercessors. Follow not;
From the most gracious regent of this land,
You may guess quickly what.
Stays but the summons of the appellant's trumpet.
Did claim some certain dukedoms, in the right
Unwilling to outlive the good that did it;
for conscience sake, to help to get thee a wife.
not suffer me: she drops booties in my mouth. I am
Fair Diomed, you do as chapmen do,
His garments are rich, but he wears
I'll knock elsewhere, to see if they'll disdain me.
Truly, an obedient lady:
nobility, in his proper stream o'erflows himself.
Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
Without offence to utter them. Thus, pretty lady,
Exeunt Servants
odours on you!
With maiden flowers, that all the world may know
Ourselves we do remember, sir, by you;
My good friends, I'll leave you till night: you are
But she's best married that dies married young.
And oped their arms to embrace me as a friend.
And looked upon, I hope, with cheerful eyes.
Will you send him, mistress, redemption, the money in his desk?
But come, my lord; and with a heavy heart,
I have by hard adventure found mine own.
Enter Chamberlain, reading a letter
Traitors!
Traffic's thy god; and thy god confound thee!
Circumstance; the seventh, the Lie Direct. All
SCENE III. Tarsus. A room in CLEON's house.
an usurped beard; I say, put money in thy purse. It
To have a thankless child! Away, away!
Exeunt
The sessions shall proceed: this is mere falsehood.
With only suffering stain by him; for him
That with his peremptory 'shall,' being but
A pox o' your throat, you bawling, blasphemous,
Suffolk, what remedy?
The yards and bowsprit, would I flame distinctly,
Trumpets
Dissembling villain, thou speak'st false in both.
From whence that tender spray did sweetly spring,
How now! which of your hips has the most profound sciatica?
In the due reverence of a sacred vow
The truth of this appear. Prepare you, lords;
And bade him follow; so indeed he did.
their hands; let thy blood and spirit embrace them;
ANTIPHOLUS
To execution and the hand of death.
My daughter might have been: my queen's square brows;
My mother is assailed in our tent,
That's true enough;
Couldst thou save nothing? Didst thou give them all?
Caesar, having made use of him in the wars 'gainst
That thou neglect me not, with that opinion
Nor cease to be an arrogant controller,
Thus dost thou hear the Nemean lion roar
None about Caesar.
From toe to crown he'll fill our skins with pinches,
Was it discretion, lords, to let this man,
hath something embolden'd me to this unseasoned
other men? Do so, I have gold for thee.
Crying 'O dear Cassio!' as it were: his gesture
By vain though apt affection.
Saw'st thou him enter at the abbey here?
this I am not certain.
Which we have done, whose answer would be death
Her knots disorder'd and her wholesome herbs
Why, then we rack the value, then we find
Of our fair cousin Dauphin; for we hear
A Roman and a British ensign wave
Acquaint her with the danger of my state:
He acts thy greatness in: and when he speaks,
Who gently would dissolve the bands of life,
As in thy red rays thou dost sink to-night,
That tell black tidings.
Not changing heart with habit, I am still
Of France and England, did this king succeed;
of cohorts, nuptial breaches, and I know not what.
Now falls on Priam.
Either forbear,
Gentlemen, for shame, forbear this outrage!
With some suspicion. I will weep for thee;
I do, hang me; i' faith, I will not. O, but her
Enter ACHILLES
chase. Finding ourselves too slow of sail, we put on
That she is issue to a faithless Jew.
When this was now a king, and now is clay?
To see him walk before a lady and to bear her fan!
How now! what art thou?
A mark marvellous well shot, for they both did hit it.
My elder brother, the Lord Aubrey Vere,
a thing of naught.
That old and antique song we heard last night:
'That I receive the general food at first,
My reasons are most strong; and you shall know them
That's paragon'd o' the world.
And, being so, shall have like want of pity.
A thriving issue: there is no lady living
When he shall miss me,--as, in faith, I mean not
Lascivious Edward, and thou perjured George,
Commend me bountifully to his good lordship; and I
Wherefore you are not paid.
He has; and we shall see him
My lord,--
Why, but there's many a man hath more hair than wit.
chains: no hearing, no feeling, but my sir's song,
Not poison any further.
The horn and noise o' the monster's, wants not spirit
By the exaction of the forfeiture?
Orlando.
But quick and in mine arms. Come, take your flowers:
Which, since they are of you, and odious,
The body of the country, city, court,
i' the church. I have dogged him, like his
SCENE II. The same. A street.
What art thou that keepest me out from the house I owe?
The Duke of Buckingham's surveyor, ha?
I'll follow this good man, and go with you;
Re-enter PISANIO, with the clothes
go and vetch me in my closet un boitier vert, a box,
Help, ho! murder! help!
Until I meet the king.
She is something before her time deliver'd.
What should the people do with these bald tribunes?
You wager'd on your angling; when your diver
Exit
For, by this ring, the doctor lay with me.
A good wench; give it me.
Exit
The way which promises assurance; and
If thou dost play with him at any game,
Our other healthful members even to that sense
What I have seen and known. You shall observe him,
That I beheld:
Happily we met; the happier for thy son.
Come, shadow, come and take this shadow up,
basket: I quaked for fear, lest the lunatic knave
Enter QUEEN GERTRUDE
This weaves itself perforce into my business.
[Aside to DOCTOR CAIUS]  Pray you let us not be
Give me the iron, I say, and bind him here.
To have free speech with you; and it concerns me
Of my dear father's gift stands chief in power,
Half all men's hearts are his.
The spirit-stirring drum, the ear-piercing fife,
Where?
is to pleasure you, coz. Can you love the maid?
That's Helenus. I marvel where Troilus is. That's
Their medicinal gum. Set you down this;
You have here, lady,
Then let my father's honours live in me,
Or shall we beat the stones about thine ears?
But those that sought it I could wish more Christians:
Like water from ye, never found again
shall have no strength to repent. An I have not
And king o'er him and all that he enjoys:
You bade me ban, and will you bid me leave?
A confused noise within:   'Mercy on us!'--  'We split, we split!'--'Farewell, my wife and  children!'-- 'Farewell, brother!'--'We split, we split, we split!'
To draw from her a prayer of earnest heart
Since his majesty went into the field, I have seen
Who finds the partridge in the puttock's nest,
I mean, that my heart unto yours is knit
man against his will.
Wash the congealment from your wounds, and kiss
To accuse myself--I hate you; which I had rather
More than, I fear, you are provided for.
prithee, let my meat make thee silent.
With measure heap'd in joy, to the measures fall.
A fellow of the royal bed, which owe
I tore it from the traitor's bosom, king;
Andromache, I am offended with you:
How well resembles it the prime of youth,
A narrow lane, an old man, and two boys.
The weariest and most loathed worldly life
For who digs hills because they do aspire
He sends this bloody napkin. Are you he?
And I have heard it said, unbidden guests
How fares my Juliet? that I ask again;
Then he hath wrong'd himself; if he be free,
Come, knock and enter; and no sooner in,
But who comes here? I am invisible;
Have I given fire and rifted Jove's stout oak
Humbly entreating from your royal thoughts
No? Come, brother; away! I will be heard.
O pretty Isabella, I am pale at mine heart to see
I do receive your offer'd love like love,
Was not that nobly done? Ay, and wisely too;
ACT II
rope's-end.'
seal-ring of my grandfather's worth forty mark.
Of what hath come to pass: for when she saw--
Well, what worst?
They say miracles are past; and we have our
knows himself to be a fool.' The heathen
Of hoarding abbots; imprisoned angels
Impossible be strange attempts to those
O sweet Portia,
How now! what's the matter?
I have this while with leaden thoughts been press'd:
Of all that hear me, and my near'st of kin
Then I would he were here alone; so should he be
Under whose government come they along?
Where are they?
Convey me to my bed, then to my grave:
'Who chooseth me shall have as much as he deserves.'
Men well inclined to hear what thou command'st:
Good even, gentle friend. Cover thy head, cover thy
All happiness to your honour!
And did supply thee at thy garden-house
And speak I will; I am no child, no babe:
And boding screech-owls make the concert full!
And not believes himself: down with the nose,
Are made, not mark'd; where violent sorrow seems
Then, Saunder, sit there, the lyingest knave in
I lay up thy lips.
Upon what bargain do you give it me?
An if she were a thornier piece of ground than she
And should you fall, he as the next will mount.
sound'? What say you, Simon Catling?
To the disgrace and downfall of your house:
Her sweet perfections with one self king!
Therein our letters do not well agree;
O Stephano. hast any more of this?
Grows elder now and cares it be not done.
God bless you, Captain Parolles.
Can qualify the same?
The worthy Leonatus is in safety
Than I, that have not well the gift of tongue,
mio Petruchio.' Rise, Grumio, rise: we will compound
For so I thought I was a cave-keeper,
Mutually.
I weigh'd the danger which my realms stood in
The foul witch Sycorax, who with age and envy
But mine is made the prologue to their play;
The Roman ladies bring not comfort home,
and rather, as it seems to me now, keepest from me
Is worth of consuls, senators, patricians,
Darest thou resolve to kill a friend of mine?
Go hence in debt: and therefore, like a cipher,
The wretch that thou hast blown unto the worst
By heaven, I saw my handkerchief in's hand.
The greatest strength and power he can make,
Exit PRINCE HENRY
the two learned men have compiled in praise of the
Exit ORLANDO
letter:--and she hath the prettiest sententious of
Know you what Caesar means to do with me?
The court's a learning place, and he is one--
It was an answer: how apply you this?
Tut, tut!
ACT II
Cannot be question'd.
Do what thou darest; I beard thee to thy face.
But little, Charles;
Where is your ancient courage? you were used
fellow. Has he any unbraided wares?
Villain, thy father was a plasterer;
By mine honour, half drunk. What is he at the gate, cousin?
I speak my good lord cardinal to this point,
Not yet! no dance! Thus change I like the moon.
company: banish plump Jack, and banish all the world.
O villain! thy lips are scarce wiped since thou
Exit
will, if you should refuse to accept him.
No child but Hero; she's his only heir.
But let my favours hide thy mangled face;
If you will have Revenge from hell, you shall:
And out of her own goodness make the net
A proper stripling and an amorous!
Therefore he will be, Timon:
And therefore mine shall save my brothers' lives.
Destroy what lies before 'em.
Some certain of the noblest-minded Romans
hedge and follow you.
untied and every thing about you demonstrating a
And say 'Thrice-welcome, drowned Viola!'
Being at Antioch--
I'll send her to you presently;
Against the which, a moiety competent
sir, I would prove--
I cannot do it; yet I know no cause
love it, nor your affections and your appetites and
exceeding heavy.
'No woman shall succeed in Salique land:'
Profess myself the winner of her honour,
defend my wiles; upon my secrecy, to defend mine
DON
Sir, I have been an unlawful bawd time out of mind;
And I, to keep all this.
And crossly to thy good all fortune goes.
I marry her! what? a customer! Prithee, bear some
Marry, go before to field, he'll be your follower;
Methinks already in this civil broil
Modest as Justice, and thou seem'st a palace
Enter MARIA
Weigh it but with the grossness of this age,
I willingly obey your command.
True, true; and now you will be my purgation and let me loose.
What, out of hearing? gone? no sound, no word?
I stuck my choice upon her, ere my heart
out of my kingdom: go to, carry this.
If not of hell, the heavens, sure, favour him.
And would, as I shall pity, I could help!
What news with you, sir?
As with a club, dash out my desperate brains?
it. Nay, friar, I am a kind of burr; I shall stick.
The lamb entreats the butcher: where's thy knife?
That's my office.
Would you enforce me to a world of care?
Patience, I say; your mind perhaps may change.
Art not thou the Lady Olivia's fool?
Of force enough to bid his brother battle;
At my lodging.
Why
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS
I summon your grace to his majesty's parliament,
Valiant Othello, we must straight employ you
to eat and none to fight. Now is it time to arm:
single: your abilities are too infant-like for
Surprised! by whom?
Hath held his current and defiled himself!
Let Love, being light, be drowned if she sink!
Deputing Cassio in his government.
Enter, in arms, LEWIS, SALISBURY, MELUN, PEMBROKE, BIGOT, and Soldiers
merry host hath had the measuring of their weapons;
Dost thou deny thy father, cursed drab?
To offend, and judge, are distinct offices
Age cannot wither her, nor custom stale
He is address'd: press near and second him.
This whole earth may be bored and that the moon
Shall free thee from the tribute which thou payest;
Which makes her seat of Belmont Colchos' strand,
Even he that did uphold the very life
Nay, my choler is ended.
Alarums. Enter MACBETH
Come forth, I say! there's other business for thee:
The sisters' vows, the hours that we have spent,
second conference, and I will bring from thence
I had not quoted him: I fear'd he did but trifle,
Peace, peace!
What is my name? Whither am I going? Where do I
I would these dewy tears were from the ground.
With scarfs and fans and double change of bravery,
SCENE I. On a ship at sea: a tempestuous noise
Millions of acres on us, till our ground,
Had he been vanquisher; as, by the same covenant,
What should he say? We wept after her hearse,
And that same greatness too which our own hands
Enter VOLUMNIA
O, patience!
To the possession of thy royal hand:
You know not why we came to visit you,--
I know the reason, lady, why you ask.
From heartiness, from bounty, fertile bosom,
Frighting her pale-faced villages with war
man and his son aboard the prince: told him I heard
To the gross clasps of a lascivious Moor--
SCENE III. OLIVIA's garden.
I do not think so: since he went into France, I
SCENE VIII. Southwark.
looked sadly, it was for want of money: and now you
On a dissension of a doit, break out
like bloody villains.
Where being apprehended, his false cunning,
you come with your appendix.
Oui. Sauf votre honneur, en verite, vous prononcez
Is a' not? it does a man's heart good. Look you
That gives me this bold show of courtesy.
Ay, lordly sir; for what are you, I pray,
True; and yet it is said, labour in thy vocation;
That are to censure them.
Then stand with us.
By each at once her chappy finger laying
Hold me your loyal servant.
Or else break out in peevish jealousies,
one-trunk-inheriting slave; one that wouldst be a
In my mind's eye, Horatio.
To Italy; and there at Venice gave
Nor thou altogether a wise man: as much foolery as
And we are stay'd for at Bassanio's feast.
Approach, there! Ah, you kite! Now, gods
For sure, he fills it up with great ability,
Alas, master, I know not.
Out of a casement.
He finished indeed his mortal act
Milford-Haven. She hath my letter for the purpose
O this woodcock, what an ass it is!
Reads
I will catechise the world for him; that is, make
the time his form and pressure. Now this overdone,
Madam, before you touch the instrument,
But in these nice sharp quillets of the law,
My friends were poor, but honest; so's my love:
He has no equal.
Come, bring in all together.
best sheep, which I fear the wolf will sooner find
For we are peremptory to dispatch
You bring me to do, and then you flout me too.
fool with child,--a dumb innocent, that could not
With mill-stones.
I'll hang you for going.
My lady is bespoke.
pox on't! I had rather not be so noble as I am;
confess, and be hanged for his labour;--first, to be
I'll hide my master from the flies, as deep
his grounds of faith that all that look on him love
O, pardon me, my lord; it oft falls out,
I have got, in exchange of a hundred and fifty
He kiss'd,--the last of many doubled kisses,--
Shall I speak for thee? shall I say 'tis so?
Which on thy royal party granted once,
Lord, how my head aches! what a head have I!
endings: no, I was not born under a rhyming planet,
losing the flood, lose thy voyage, and, in losing
I am, and by my fancy: if my reason
Have at you, then, affection's men at arms.
Myself and divers gentlemen beside
swain, that base minnow of thy mirth,'--
'as true as I live,' and 'as God shall mend me,' and
From whence at first she weigh'd her anchorage,
The youthful Phoebus:
To do worse to you were fell cruelty,
The king hath yielded unto thy demand:
But constant, he were perfect. That one error
Dissolve, thick cloud, and rain; that I may say,
Exit Gratiano
I will do so.
Suggest his soon-believing adversaries,
Cobweb: if I cut my finger, I shall make bold with
The constant service of the antique world,
Call hither to the stake my two brave bears,
As upright as the cedar.
May turn the tide of fearful faction
I would not from your love make such a stray,
The stomach of my sense. Would I had never
So, oft it chances in particular men,
Why hast thou lost the fresh blood in thy cheeks;
So nightly toils the subject of the land,
Enter, on the other side of the field, RICHMOND,  Sir William Brandon, OXFORD, and others. Some of the Soldiers pitch RICHMOND's tent
I could neither believe nor misdoubt. Pray you,
And led my country's strength successfully,
Let my tears stanch the earth's dry appetite;
more, proceed accordingly.
Go, trumpet, to the walls, and sound a parle.
When you above perceive me like a crow,
But pardon me; I do not in position
Ha!
And signify this loving interview
Use me but as your spaniel, spurn me, strike me,
knave is handsome, young, and hath all those
But, not to be a troubler of your peace,
Here; swear then how thou escapedst.
That Neptune's arms, who clippeth thee about,
And, for thy humour, I will stay at home.
Thy loving father, Hamlet.
So please my lord the duke and all the court
Thou, like an exorcist, hast conjured up
Even in the instant of repair and health,
And did forsake her: she had a song of 'willow;'
Of all the four, or the three, or the two, or one of the four.
That for some vicious mole of nature in them,
Ay: saw you any thing?
To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
that you shall think yourself bound to put it on
Were to prove false, which I will never be,
What man is there so much unreasonable,
Stark, as you see:
Then I lie not.
You have a gentle heart. I saw you lately,
I trod upon a worm against my will,
SCENE II. Paris. The KING's palace.
Why, as I told thee, 'tis a custom with him,
I to buy for our sheep-shearing feast? Three pound
And there my rendezvous is quite cut off.
He that shall live this day, and see old age,
I'll be before thee.
For here lies Juliet, and her beauty makes
To a new-crowned monarch: such it is
And with loud 'larums welcome them to Rome.
But that my coat is better than thou know'st
Exit
No, truly; for the truest poetry is the most
My ships come home a month before the day.
How now, how now! how go maidenheads? Here, you
On their sustaining garments not a blemish,
With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword
Look upon him, love him; he worships you.
Welcome from Mantua: what says Romeo?
Thus hath the course of justice wheel'd about,
Does he not?
But woo her, gentle Paris, get her heart,
When I do tell thee, there my hopes lie drown'd,
Beseeching God and you to pardon me.
We cannot afford you so.
Let him be call'd for.
Fie, for shame!
Our soldiers stand full fairly for the day.
Jesus preserve your royal majesty!
Than twenty of their swords: look thou but sweet,
prunes; and having but two in the dish, as I said,
She'll home to her father: and provide me presently
And turns it to exile; there art thou happy:
Is Silvia dead?
I am content: Richard Plantagenet,
With dignities becoming your estates.
What ho! Lucetta!
lodging and say he lies here or he lies there, were
That mercy which fierce fire and iron extends,
He's truly valiant that can wisely suffer
That, like an engine, wrench'd my frame of nature
You had only in your silent judgment tried it,
Lies heavy on me; O, my heart is sick!
Visit by night your lady's chamber-window
That will speak any thing?
That souls of animals infuse themselves
with such waterflies, diminutives of nature!
And, gallant Warwick, do but answer this:
Please you to interpose, fair madam: kneel
But wherefore did you so much tempt the heavens?
No, my good lord: myself, he and my sister
contradiction, I have heard that.
Where is my brother Hector?
As if you were dismay'd: be cheerful, sir.
most weak pia mater.
Bid him not fear the separated councils
Like a fine bragging youth, and tell quaint lies,
Fie, fie, how wayward is this foolish love
That from the hunter's aim had ta'en a hurt,
Will he conduct you through the heart of France,
And something spoke in choler, ill, and hasty:
There are no tricks in plain and simple faith;
Where we're offenders now, appear soul-vex'd,
She loves thee, boy, too well to do thee harm.
SCENE II. Padua. Before HORTENSIO'S house.
Pray that their burthens may not fall this day,
Enter a Messenger
And God forgive them that so much have sway'd
Yon light is not day-light, I know it, I:
How some men creep in skittish fortune's hall,
As mine on hers, so hers is set on mine;
By sight of these our baleful enemies.
You shall not know by what strange accident
Such hideous cries, that with the very noise
Ere you had spoke so far. He led our powers;
If he dislike it, let him to our sister,
Sell when you can: you are not for all markets:
Friend, look to 't.
you serve God?
The former man may make him. Bring us to him,
Thy father hath.
What is his name?
Then, Brutus, I have much mistook your passion;
Tendering my person's safety, hath appointed
Then is sin struck down like an ox, and iniquity's
Plough Rome and harrow Italy: I'll never
That none so small advantage shall step forth
Will undertake to woo curst Katharina,
As shall to thee blot out what wrongs were theirs
Go, then; for 'tis in vain
Why should I think you can be mine and true,
Petruchio, since we are stepp'd thus far in,
Here is the babe, as loathsome as a toad
[Aside]
Will bless it and approve it with a text,
He would not answer to: forbad all names;
Nay, let 'em be unmanly, yet are follow'd.
Delivered up again with peaceful words?
My mother a Plantagenet,--
Nay, nay, to the purpose.
Re-enter AEdile, with Citizens
You knot of mouth-friends I smoke and lukewarm water
If we do meet again, why, we shall smile;
That the soul of our grandam might haply inhabit a bird.
Those uncles which you want were dangerous;
Enter FLORIZEL and PERDITA
Partly that I have need of such a youth
For since these arms of mine had seven years' pith,
Courtsied when you have and kiss'd
head: and among other important and most serious
My crown, mine own ambition and my queen.
A mother's tears in passion for her son:
Why look you strange on me? you know me well.
The duke must grant me that: besides, his picture
How now, Sir William! whither were you sent?
To answer for his love, tell him from me
That look'd upon't. Here comes the good Macduff.
What answer makes your grace to the rebels'
Remember it, my lord?
Diana's temple is not distant far,
a French hose: come in, tailor; here you may
Had all your quarters been as safely kept
I'll privily away. I love the people,
Now, good my lord, lie here and rest awhile.
That it in golden letters should be set
Whoever knocks!
He seems to be the more noble in being fantastical:
Do with your injuries as seems you best,
Making the green one red.
by the will of a dead father. Is it not hard,
And that thou oft provokest; yet grossly fear'st
Now his important blood will nought deny
This is his lordship's man.
I must needs wake her. Madam, madam, madam!
will sing the savageness out of a bear: of so high
SCENE VII. The gates of Corioli.
Will creep in service where it cannot go.
Their hands and faces were an badged with blood;
Nor any one.
Who cannot be crushed with a plot?
Must by the roots be hewn up yet ere night.
Speak not you for him; he's a traitor. Come;
For that which thou hast done,--must send thee hence
SCENE I. The plains of Philippi.
warrant, a virtuous,--Where is your mother?
No slander; they steal hearts.
[Reads]  'Dian, the count's a fool, and full of gold,'--
The one as long as the other: 'tis pity of him.
Perchance, Iago, I will ne'er go home.
Thy bones are marrowless, thy blood is cold;
Like to the summer's corn by tempest lodged.
I know of none;
But now thou seem'st a coward.
The one's for use, the other useth it.
Peruse them well:
'Tis vile, unless it may be quaintly order'd,
And he from forage will incline to play:
Tell me how Wales was made so happy as
A foolish thought, to say a sorry sight.
Or for love's sake, a word that loves all men,
And there die strangled ere my Romeo comes?
This king to Tarsus,--think his pilot thought;
Let's think in private more.
Will make me sleep again: and then, in dreaming,
What a treasure had he, my lord?
Let's each one send unto his wife;
Have comfort, for I know your plight is pitied
she carves, she gives the leer of invitation: I
For he will never follow any thing
What, ho, I say! peace in this prison!
So 'tis our will he should.
Or else, good night your vow!
Exit
that I were a man! What, bear her in hand until they
I fear me, lords, for all this flattering gloss,
beguile the old pantaloon.
Monsieur Love! I will hide me in the arbour.
whereupon, after a little amazedness, we were all
By doing damned hate upon thyself?
Alas, my lord, hang me, if ever I spake the words.
We four set upon some dozen--
Yea, providently caters for the sparrow,
In spite of Burgundy and all his friends.
Music and a song: 'Black spirits,'  and c
And suddenly resolve me in my suit.
Patience, good sir,
Well, if we had of every nation a traveller, we
Here is some gold for thee.
And Eglamour is in her company.
Have blown this coal betwixt my lord and me;
these strange flies, these fashion-mongers, these
Then, lest he may, prevent. And, since the quarrel
Re-enter BIONDELLO
fancies' pricked in't for a feather: a monster, a
up my rest to run away, so I will not rest till I
Appear'd to me last night, for ne'er was dream
With this, my weapon drawn, I rush'd upon him,
In your lord's scale is nothing but himself,
You must have patience, madam.
To seal love's bonds new-made, than they are wont
Re-enter a third Citizen
Justice, O royal duke! Vail your regard
So that my speed to Mantua there was stay'd.
transported.
And presently took post to tell it you:
slew him. There is tears for his love; joy for his
Away, my Thetis!
belied a lady; thirdly, they have verified unjust
SCENE IV. Another part of the field.
and send her home again without a husband.
I have a way to win their loves again;
not hand a rope more; use your authority: if you
and a head-stall of sheeps leather which, being
'Tis death to me to be at enmity;
I am resolved; 'tis but a three years' fast:
Exit
Have at you with a proverb--Shall I set in my staff?
Here Goths have given me leave to sheathe my sword.
Enter HELICANUS and ESCANES
I'll first direct my men what they shall do with the
Thou'lt show thy mercy and remorse more strange
Whose health and royalty I pray for.
As if he did contemn what he requested
Now, the melancholy god protect thee; and the
Nor any of his false confederates.
Thou hadst a Clarence too, and Richard kill'd him.
DON
there: I will go.
Ay, forsooth.
Now, now, you stars that move in your right spheres,
I said, and said no more but what my thoughts
The ripest fruit first falls, and so doth he;
And undiscover'd come to me again
The breast of heaven, I did present myself
Sweet York, begin: and if thy claim be good,
Who most humbly desires you to invite Hector to his tent,--
My mind exceeds the compass of her wheel.
Is it your dear friend that is thus in trouble?
That all the abhorred things o' the earth amend
And gallop o'er the field.
He is frank'd up to fatting for his pains
Enter NORTHUMBERLAND
speech of insultment ended on his dead body, and
He hath songs for man or woman, of all sizes; no
Thou dost, and think'st it much to tread the ooze
and a throng! To your manor of Pickt-hatch! Go.
Do so: and let no man abide this deed,
The night to the owl and morn to the lark
Your charms and every thing beside.
amiss; and as many lies as will lie in thy sheet of
She's not fourteen.
And tell me, then, have you not broke your oaths?
This morning for ten thousand of your throats
Lord of his reason. What though you fled
And I'll keep him so,
Our prayers to the gods, which is a comfort
Whither art going?
Makes only wars on thee. Bid them all fly;
Well, I'll end the song. Sirs, cover the while; the
Which in the very meeting fall and die.
Exit
Enter VIOLA, and Clown with a tabour
Thou dost not speak so much.
He hath a person and a smooth dispose
excommunication and meet me at the gaol.
Most true, 'tis right; you were so, Alisander.
that she would have followed her exile, or have died
Our gayness and our gilt are all besmirch'd
none but this.
Bounty, perseverance, mercy, lowliness,
You have a father able to maintain you;
By my white beard,
The king enacts more wonders than a man,
How now, Master Fenton!
And hither come in't: go, hence with diligence!
Thy hand once more; I will not loose again,
move under the influence of the most received star;
The prince's espials have informed me
Julia, farewell!
Madam, I would not wish a better father.
Why, so didst thou: or are they spare in diet,
O, bless me here with thy victorious hand,
The Duke of York, to know what pricks you on
To keep by policy what Henry got?
Where thou and I henceforth may never meet.
Even as the waving sedges play with wind.
up thus meanly
That breath fame blows; that praise, sole sure,
And, for he understands you are in arms,
through thee. Give me thy hand.
I am best pleased with that.
That is the best news: that the Earl of Richmond
The very best at a beast, my lord, that e'er I saw.
Why, Buckingham, I say, I would be king,
Come on, come on; you are pictures out of doors,
With very ignorance; we have kiss'd away
Of dreaded justice, but on the ministers
To bear me company and go with me:
Haply some poison yet doth hang on them,
Which might appal the devil.
Our holy purpose to Jerusalem.
so it skills not much when they are delivered.
Thou marshall'st me the way that I was going;
Or die in the adventure, be my helps,
park; and I will teach a scurvy jack-a-nape priest
Exeunt, severally, GLOUCESTER and BISHOP OF WINCHESTER with their Serving-men
with you to your chapel?
Fie on ambition! fie on myself, that have a sword,
Stomach not all. A more unhappy lady,
the general's wife be stirring, tell her there's
You use your manners discreetly in all kind of companies:
Not possible.
Exeunt TITUS, LAVINIA, and Young LUCIUS
dagger with a master of fence; three veneys for a
No, sir, I say his horse comes, with him on his back.
The instruments that feel.
The Lady Cressida.
And such an instrument I was to use.
Knight of the Burning Lamp.
I'll see what I can do.
As my true service shall deserve your love.
tell her but a worky-day fortune.
Ride more than thou goest,
That's good too: but what needs either your 'mum'
Peace, ho! I bar confusion:
Ay, and have been so any time these four hours.
So you may put a man in your belly.
And breathe twice and cry 'so, so,'
I do not doubt
My heart hath melted at a lady's tears,
I stand dishonour'd, that have gone about
Enter URSULA
She, I'll swear, hath corns; am I come near ye now?
numbers for the matter;
I'll repent, and that suddenly, while I am in some
With 'God preserve the good Duke Humphrey!'
it is the stubbornest young fellow of France, full
Thy love! out, tawny Tartar, out!
Transform me then, and to your power I'll yield.
And fee my friends in Rome. O negligence!
The next ensuing hour some foul mischance
By reason guide his execution.
Jupiter descends in thunder and lightning, sitting  upon an eagle: he throws a thunderbolt. The Apparitions fall on their knees
Exit FALSTAFF
Stand forth, Dame Eleanor Cobham, Gloucester's wife:
Because they have been still mine enemies:
Holding due course to Harfleur. Follow, follow:
Right worthy you priority.
Else with the like I had requited him.
Against my honour?
Off with that bauble, throw it under-foot.
Ay, so I did indeed.
Which I have open'd to his grace at large,
his action of battery? Hum! This fellow might be
I here proclaim myself thy mortal foe,
Thou great, and wise, to hear Ulysses speak.
To whom as great a charge as little honour
That has to-day escaped. I thank you all;
O, help him, you sweet heavens!
One daughter, and a wench full grown,
O infinite virtue, comest thou smiling from
Between her heart and lips: she render'd life,
Green earthen pots, bladders and musty seeds,
Haled out to murder: myself on every post
[Aside]  Thy father, Pompey, would ne'er have
If you are bound to us or no. What say you?
Or can conceal his hunger till he famish?
The greatness of his person.
What, John Rugby! John! what, John, I say!
The ordering of the mind too, 'mongst all colours
I'll prove a busy actor in their play.
Of stern injustice and confused wrong.
Away! they'll kill us.
Gladly, my lord.
That in this desert inaccessible,
Why, man, I saw Bassanio under sail:
Labouring for destiny make cruel way
Ay, that left pap,
But to defend his person from night-foes?
Let good Antonio look he keep his day,
Wherewith already France is overrun.
Is a sharp wit matched with too blunt a will;
Must first induce you to believe: whose strength
March. Enter WARWICK, MONTAGUE, and their army
Excepting one, I would he were the best
If either of you know any inward impediment why you
God and Saint George, Talbot and England's right,
division of the kingdom, it appears not which of
Madam, he will; I know't.
[Aside]  I scarce know how.
Good lords, although my will to give is living,
Of good and bad, that makes and unfolds error,
I prithee, tell me, doth he keep his bed?
Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right
To mourn a mischief that is past and gone
Sound but another, and another shall
qualities can make her be refused.
How I have ever loved the life removed
There's magic in thy majesty, which has
I'll see your grace: till then I'll follow her.
Good gentlemen, let me have leave to speak:
Some man or other must present Wall: and let him
her horse stumbled, how she waded through the dirt
So I do: but, i' faith, I should have been a woman by right.
I prophesied, if a gallows were on land,
[To CLAUDIO]  Means your lordship to be married
Which I respect not. I did send to you
Send for the lady to the Sagittary,
'Twere pregnant they should square between
Nature's own sweet and cunning hand laid on:
hanged: Charles' wain is over the new chimney, and
Enter SIR STEPHEN SCROOP
Good day to both of you.
polecat, you runyon! out, out! I'll conjure you,
Would bark your honour from that trunk you bear,
Alas, sir, we did it for pure need.
For peace, for love, for league, and good to Rome:
ago, and wert taken with the manner, and ever since
Ah, Gaunt, his blood was thine! that bed, that womb,
You have right well conceited. Let us go,
There's business in these faces. Why so sadly
Yet let us all together to our troops,
Or to their own perdition.
What would you do?
Good.
I would with such perfection govern, sir,
A gallant curtle-axe upon my thigh,
Safely, I think: 'twas a contention in public,
Be it so, Lysander: find you out a bed;
O, let it not be said: forage, and run
That I am dog-weary: but at last I spied
ACT II
Sir Oliver Martext, you are well met: will you
We are not furnish'd like Bohemia's son,
Am I in France?
As deep as that, though true.
How far into the morning is it, lords?
As two spent swimmers, that do cling together
Then, Angelo, thy fault's thus manifested;
What news?
Because he would avoid such bitter taunts
How green you are and fresh in this old world!
[Aside]  He lies, for I invented it myself.
In Richard's time; and posted day and night
invisible within the circumference.
And on her wither'd dewlap pour the ale.
What you as from your father shall deliver,
Exit
Speak within door.
So do counterfeits.
And presently prefer his suit to Caesar.
To ease his breast with panting.
Fading in music: that the comparison
To be acknowledged, madam, is o'erpaid.
the old Robin Hood of England: they say many young
Is richly furnished with plate and gold;
And some are yet ungotten and unborn
By Dromio?
Our house, my sovereign liege, little deserves
And ditches grave you all!
I pray she may; as well for the encouragement of the
Hope of revenge shall hide our inward woe.
Rather our state's defective for requital
The continent and summary of my fortune.
Than you may call to comfort you, for I
I'll fight with him alone: stand, Diomed.
If my offence be of such mortal kind
When will he be here?
'And shall!' what villain was it that spake
Songs and Sonnets here.
And give them leave to fly that will not stay;
Were nice and lucky, men did ransom lives
Still have I borne it with a patient shrug,
ever know beloved?
I will assume desert. Give me a key for this,
No impediment between, but that you must
But thou wilt be avenged on my misdeeds,
I owe you much, and, like a wilful youth,
river; but 'tis all one, 'tis alike as my fingers is
verify as much in his beard: be has no more
To keep base life afoot. Return with her?
When we grow stronger, then we'll make our claim:
Like bubbles in a late-disturbed stream;
Who had been hither sent on the debating
How now, Sir Proteus! Is your countryman
Nay, and you shall hear some.
pretty jest your daughter told us of.
Her and her blind boy's scandal'd company
Alas!
like. Our posts shall be swift and intelligent
Lend me your knees, and all my life to come
sore with shooting.
If there were no foes, that were enough
That do afflict each other!
And never in my life, I do protest,
When we do quicken. Desdemona comes:
That's a deed thou'lt die for.
Ay, just; a verse in Horace; right, you have it.
And that unaptness made your minister,
Now, sweet lord,
LEONINE runs away
Dumain is mine, as sure as bark on tree.
Knocks
Judas I am, ycliped Maccabaeus.
The price is to ask it kindly.
In the true course of all the question.
To speak and strike? O Rome, I make thee promise:
fall to: if you can mock a leek, you can eat a leek.
Talk like the vulgar sort of market men
To do this outrage: and it now is done.
and would you yet I were merrier? Unless you could
bless myself every way. You are both sure, and will assist me?
Why?
Thy father, Earl of Cambridge, then derived
Which now doth that I would not have it do,
I cannot give due action to my words,
Therefore we meet not now. Then let me hear
Churchmen so hot? good uncle, hide such malice;
Upon my faith and honour.
That late he married--hath referr'd herself
We men may say more, swear more: but indeed
Degrees, observances, customs, and laws,
What colour for my visitation shall I
And a good soldier too, lady.
Your wisdom best shall think.
And interchangeably hurl down my gage
To swear, swears only not to be forsworn;
Like to the time o' the year between the extremes
If you outstay the time, upon mine honour,
Rosalind is your love's name?
The first I warrant thee, if dreams prove true.
Enter SEBASTIAN
Following the fliers at the very heels,
not, loves thee not. Ut, re, sol, la, mi, fa.
And bring AEneas and the Grecian with you.
As if I had never been such.
And therefore thou mayst think my 'havior light:
My being in Egypt, Caesar,
Lo, here, this long-usurped royalty
that hath abundance of charge too, God knows what.
And in my loyal bosom lies his power.
Shed on the earth, for thy return to Rome:
This ensign here of mine was turning back;
Upon my part shall be unviolable.
With thee awhile: determine on some course,
toes look through the over-leather.
'Tis pity bounty had not eyes behind,
To ORLANDO
have not in abundance?
Enter POINS
Should by the cormorant belly be restrain'd,
Which, being dried with grief, will break to powder,
That is not often vouch'd, while 'tis a-making,
I do not think't.
And daughters of the game.
No more. Good night:
Wherein your cunning can assist me much.
Something too wildly and my father's precepts
That we shall stop her exclamation.
Whose tongue?
Let me choose
Uncle, this is a Montague, our foe,
Where we have lived, and so extort from's that
I'll send some holy bishop to entreat;
And were I strong, I would not shun their fury:
She is too big, I hope, for me to compass.
Good even, Audrey.
A gait, a state, a brow, a breast, a waist,
The grappling vigour and rough frown of war
The time is worth the use on't.
Albeit against my conscience and my soul.
But death doth front thee with apparent spoil
'Alla nostra casa ben venuto, molto honorato signor
No more than a fish loves water. Is not this a
And great affinity, and that in wholesome wisdom
Who thou wilt: and if thou please,
Thou takest up
Corrupt and tainted with a thousand vices,
To be discover'd, that can do me good?
SCENE I. A field near Frogmore.
And yet the painter flatter'd her a little,
Thou art a Castalion-King-Urinal. Hector of Greece, my boy!
Being the right idea of your father,
And more diversity of sounds, all horrible,
One of the greatest in the Christian world
That's mercy, but too much security:
And, princes French, and peers, health to you all!
Enter PAROLLES
'Tis in the malice of mankind that he thus advises
For the whole state, I would put mine armour on,
M,--Malvolio; M,--why, that begins my name.
are but lightly rewarded.
SCENE I. London. A street.
Did share it.
Item, Sauce,. . . 4d.
These are the limbs o' the plot: no more, I hope.
Foot it featly here and there;
These accusations and these grievous crimes
[Aside to PAROLLES]  Is she gone to the king?
would he were, for I am now so far in offence with
Away! we'll none on 't: here has been too much
Nor tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses:
Are many simples operative, whose power
Were 't not for laughing, I should pity him.
And let the soul forth that adoreth thee,
For 'tis a cause that hath no mean dependance
Strengthen'd with what apology you think
In God's name what are you, and how came you hither?
stockings, and every officer his wedding-garment on?
Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand
Help to search my house this one time. If I find
SCENE VI. Antium. A public place.
If they do see thee, they will murder thee.
SCENE IV. HERO's apartment.
That I was worse than nothing; for, indeed,
Since last we saw in France?
But mightier crimes are laid unto your charge,
That I think honourable: therefore mark my counsel,
Crown'd by the name of Henry the Fourth,
Conceives by me! How likes Hortensio that?
In weeping after this untimely bier.
And that small model of the barren earth
O Margaret, Margaret, now thy heavy curse
Set down our host. My partner in this action,
Before I speak, too threateningly replies:
All that's spoke is marr'd.
As 'twere a careless trifle.
Was not thy father, Richard Earl of Cambridge,
Your lord does know my mind; I cannot love him:
scarce obey this medicine.
In different pleasures. Pray you, let us in.
For though it have holp madmen to their wits,
And talk so like a waiting-gentlewoman
Exit BALTHASAR
Still in thy right hand carry gentle peace,
Is that she is intolerable curst
I'll say as they say and persever so,
O grace! O heaven forgive me!
Madam, I heard her speak; she is low-voiced.
the dukes; and a worse matter than that: I have
In this fair rescue thou hast brought to me.
Stay, slave; I must employ thee:
That have by marriage made thy daughter mine,
'Twixt my extremes and me this bloody knife
Spotted with strawberries in your wife's hand?
kinsman Toby,--
Here didst thou fall; and here thy hunters stand,
I will no further chide you.
Which now shows all the beauty of the sun,
I would not be a Roman, of all nations; I had as
And I'll not wish thee to her.
I know you did.
Confesses that she secretly o'erheard
Me tank you for dat.
best of 'em were hereditary hangmen. God-den to
No, madam; we have cull'd such necessaries
Why, Warwick, canst thou speak against thy liege,
Let Pericles believe his daughter's dead,
Than that poor Brutus, with himself at war,
I'll to the Tuscan wars, and never bed her.
His name is Barnardine.
My lord, 'tis but a base ignoble mind
A lean cheek, which you have not, a blue eye and
When Talbot hath set footing once in France
Determined of; how I must climb her window,
Unsafe the while, that we
I bar it in the interest of my wife:
'Yea,' quoth my husband,'fall'st upon thy face?
Since last I went to France to fetch his queen:
How they might hurt their enemies, if they durst;
No further, sir.
Before, behind thee, and on every hand,
Enter a Messenger
The day begins to break, and night is fled,
That he would please to alter the king's course,
Your mistress' name?
Against the flint and hardness of my fault:
I see two husbands, or mine eyes deceive me.
But doth he know that I am in this forest and in
And we'll consign thereto. Will you, fair sister,
Re-enter AUTOLYCUS
Having no other reason
And of their feather many more proud birds,
Makes my flesh tremble in their different greeting.
Gets him to rest, cramm'd with distressful bread;
How if I answer 'no'?
Dies
Many can brook the weather that love not the wind.
Father, I charge thee, by thy reverence,
Deny't again.
It must be by his death: and for my part,
Great king,
In truth, I know not. I was set at work
day's journey.
And gracious be the issue!
Hath almost ended his life's history:
Look, how this ring encompasseth finger.
But you, my noble lords, may name the time;
And I am glad of it with all my heart:
I honour him
This was a way to thrive, and he was blest:
I will not stay to-night for all the town;
As I do now: for whiles this honest fool
My Lord of Somerset, what youth is that,
Light boats sail swift, though greater hulks draw deep.
What good condition can a treaty find
By my troth, thou sayest true; for since the little
And banding themselves in contrary parts
If one could match you: the scrimers of their nation,
I bleed inwardly for my lord.
But if I were as wise as honest, then
And praised be rashness for it, let us know,
Why, Jessica, I say!
Exit
No; nor it is not meet he should. For, though I
carries noise, and behind him he leaves tears:
Ourselves to be.
Your grace is welcome to our town and us.
Supposing it a thing impossible,
for; and there is a kind of confession in your looks
Throng our large temples with the shows of peace,
Why, Sir John, my face does you no harm.
Hath stepp'd into the law, which is past depth
Are gone with him towards Dover; where they boast
uncle-father and aunt-mother are deceived.
Never, before this day, in all his life.
But yet keep time in all. Will you withdraw?
These things indeed you have articulate,
Exit boy
rush for Tom's forefinger, as a pancake for Shrove
Quail, crush, conclude, and quell!
'Faith, by no means; she has so strictly tied
See you now;
Has crept too near his conscience.
Now fear is from me, I'll speak troth. Lord Cloten,
him eat it that says I love not you.
In Cleopatra's sails their nests: the augurers
His princes and his peers to servitude,
saving faith within me tells me thou shalt, I get
Where never Roman shall take note of him.
At our more leisure shall I render you;
Lady, what man is he you are accused of?
Take him up gently and to bed with him;
I can express no kinder sign of love
content to do the profession some grace; that would,
He will shake
Madam, sit you and fear not: whom we raise,
By such a day and hour.
Leave me, or tarry, Edward will be king,
serve God, if the devil bid you. Because we come to
And say 'Long live our Emperor Saturnine!'
Answer I must and shall do with my life.
How poor are they that have not patience!
The beacon of the wise, the tent that searches
My guilt be on my head, and there an end.
SCENE II. Windsor Park.
at suit of his gray beard,--
out for him: I frown the while; and perchance wind
Cassio, my lord! No, sure, I cannot think it,
Now, what news on the Rialto?
With eyes wide open; standing, speaking, moving,
Constantinople and take the Turk by the beard?
And rest myself content.
Enter COUNTESS, LAFEU, and Clown
And bide the penance of each three years' day.
There is further compliment of leavetaking
The tongue of Isabel. She's come to know
Extemporally will stage us, and present
This, fellow: what wouldst?
Of whom, even to the state's best health, I have
Poor drunkard!
She is your own; else, you must pardon me,
I would there were no age between sixteen and
life, but in respect that it is a shepherd's life,
Let's make the best of it.
This tiger-footed rage, when it shall find
And will at last break out into a flame:
Why do you put these sayings upon me?
My son George Stanley is frank'd up in hold:
Exit AEdile
My lord, you once did love me.
And Richard but a ragged fatal rock?
Ride thou unto the horsemen on yon hill:
'Twas not your valour, Clifford, drove me thence.
Here comes Signior Claudio, led by the provost to
I hope thou wilt.
She's dead as earth. Lend me a looking-glass;
Lest thou be hated both of God and man!
A charge, Lord York, that I will see perform'd.
Excuse; it is to beat usurping down.
This must not be thus borne: this will break out
Here is more news.
already; unless you laugh and minister occasion to
A freestone-colour'd hand; I verily did think
If she deny to wed, I'll crave the day
Do villany, do, since you protest to do't,
And sing it to her bones, sing it to-night:
But Hercules himself must yield to odds;
To him that, for your honour and your state,
Welcome, my lord: what, will our mother come?
This cloth thou dip'dst in blood of my sweet boy,
you, sir; it comes from the ambassador that was
O, sir, I will not be so hard-hearted; I will give
ANTIPHOLUS
Besides, he tells me that, if peradventure
troll-my-dames; I knew him once a servant of the
the inter'gatories: demand them singly.
You men will never tarry.
How can we aid you with our kindred tears?
Than young Laertes, in a riotous head,
Do bid it welcome.
As if he master'd there a double spirit.
and make but an interior survey of your good selves!
Till hasty Polydote return, and bring him
Bless thy five wits!
the chronicles; we came in with Richard Conqueror.
Enter CHATILLON
And be all traitors that do so?
And those who have the wit to claim the place:
The quarrel is between our masters and us their men.
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ, GUILDENSTERN, and some Attendants
Commends him to you.
So weary with disasters, tugg'd with fortune,
From these devourers to be banished!
He's ta'en.
Nay, he will answer the letter's master, how he
been truth, sir.
allegiance, mark you this, on my allegiance. He is
It will be laid to us, whose providence
the Count Palatine; he is every man in no man; if a
The queen, your mother, in most great affliction of
Nay, good Ajax.
Give me that boy, and I will go with thee.
secrets, but you must be tittle-tattling before all
But all the honour Salisbury hath won
Groping for trouts in a peculiar river.
To be a make-peace shall become my age:
Ho, you sir! friend! Hear you, sir! speak!
He did, my lord, four days ere I set forth;
I can but say their protestation over;
He hath abandoned his physicians, madam; under whose
As flesh of muttons, beefs, or goats. I say,
Nerissa there her clerk: Lorenzo here
Cloten, the son o' the queen. I fear some ambush.
Here is my throne, bid kings come bow to it.
Beguiled all spies.
Cicero one!
With mine own hands I give away my crown,
So fared our father with his enemies;
By heaven, I would most gladly have forgot it.
eat three: if thou wert the fox, the lion would
Poins! Now shall we know if Gadshill have set a
To pluck away their power, as now at last
Such noble scenes as draw the eye to flow,
Forgive me that I do not dream on thee,
Sweet Gertrude, leave us too;
To unpath'd waters, undream'd shores, most certain
way.
Let gentleness my strong enforcement be:
That for the fault's love is the offender friended.
But yet I call you servile ministers,
His beard was as white as snow,
Hear not my steps, which way they walk, for fear
Do you believe his tenders, as you call them?
done. Marry, I would not do such a thing for a
Was wont to cheer his dad in mutinies?
Thy school-days frightful, desperate, wild, and furious,
And Humphrey is no little man in England.
Exit
Will it eat me?
And that is more than I will yield unto:
Till Katharina the curst have got a husband.
Look, here comes one: a gentlewoman of mine,
When from the first to last betwixt us two
deep glass of rhenish wine on the contrary casket,
To end itself by death? 'Twas yet some comfort,
A lady to the worthiest sir that ever
I'll make so bold to call,
I would not draw them; I would have my bond.
Well, sir, I thank you.
eyes; and then they will endure handling, which
Look round about the wicked streets of Rome;
Blood and revenge are hammering in my head.
For nought so vile that on the earth doth live
And think of each thing well.
That time best fits the work we have in hand.
By envy's hand and murder's bloody axe.
Mounted upon a hot and fiery steed
For what?
Hold up thy head, vile Scot, or thou art like
what they say of him.
And, as we march, our strength will be augmented
wouldst not have slipped out of my contemplation: but
Thine own particular wrongs and stop those maims
That my woe-wearied tongue is mute and dumb,
The sternness of his presence?
What's that to thee?
Making such difference 'twixt wake and sleep
When Prospero is destroyed.
The general suit of Rome; never admitted
And none but women left to wail the dead.
And in that hope I throw mine eyes to heaven,
Then once more to your Scottish prisoners.
her, not bedded her; and sworn to make the 'not'
Are you a man? have you a soul or sense?
not too late now.
Drawn tuns of blood out of thy country's breast,
it over: by the Lord, and I do not, I am a villain:
What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet?
Exeunt
He will be found a dangerous protector.
From whence this present day he is deliver'd?
My language! heavens!
I never saw an action of such shame;
This paper has undone me: 'tis the account
Hast thou not spoke like thunder on my side,
Quite through the deeds of men: he loves no plays,
If you do censure me by what you were,
The piece of tender air, thy virtuous daughter,
Good father cardinal, cry thou amen
From slaves that apes would beat! Pluto and hell!
The last was I that felt thy tyranny:
Which giveth many wounds when one will kill.
It shall be so:
Teach thy necessity to reason thus;
It cannot be this weak and writhled shrimp
And yet I will not, sith so prettily
unseasonably. He was furnished like a hunter.
To-morrow yield up rule, resign my life,
Despised, distressed, hated, martyr'd, kill'd!
Ay, rather than I'll shame my mother's womb.
A matter from thee, and a birth indeed
Go, bid the soldiers shoot.
As we this garden! We at time of year
venturing.
Dare rack his own: his subject am I not,
The fall of Antony!
where's that?
Devise strange deaths for small offences done?
We'll yoke together, like a double shadow
Are but black to Rosalind.
Now must I hide his body in some hole,
I will forget my nature. So kind a father! Be my
So, I am satisfied. Give me a bowl of wine:
Admirable: how this grace
But what we do determine oft we break.
and my staff understands me.
Think it no more;
Enter EDGAR
Who then, affrighted with their bloody looks,
Brutus shall lead; and we will grace his heels
compliment, and men are only turned into tongue, and
Nay, for methought yesterday your mistress shrewdly
Shakes the old beldam earth and topples down
So true men yield, with robbers so o'ermatch'd.
of nobleness which nature shows above her breeding,
For of no right, nor colour like to right,
And you in love shall not deny me this.
Still revelling like lords till all be gone;
And knows not how to do it but with tears.
Which of you two did dine with me to-day?
Yet am I noble as the adversary
Come buy of me, come; come buy, come buy;
And, in that ease, I'll tell thee my disease.
good leg will fall; a straight back will stoop; a
Imprison'd and in scarcity of friends,
Inter their bodies as becomes their births:
Enter AJAX
And I did laugh sans intermission
Old as I am, to queen it: but, I pray you,
me see; what think you of falling in love?
If I to-day die not with Frenchmen's rage,
Come, other sorts offend as well as we.
betwixt us. Only, thus far you shall answer: if
but I say, 'tis the bee's wax; for I did but seal
Vouchsafe to read the purpose of my coming,
shallow,--a death that I abhor; for the water swells
It is a rupture that you may easily heal: and the
I, his sole son, do this same villain send
Enter HYMEN, ROSALIND, and CELIA
Against my coming in: thou better know'st
Give life to yours.
[Aside to NERISSA]  Thou mayst, I warrant.
one: 'What cur is that?' says another: 'Whip him
Well said, Hermione.
That head, my lord?
To hear the process; and warrant she'll tax him home:
Brother, we done deeds of charity;
That I will here dismiss my loving friends,
Could we but learn from whence his sorrows grow.
Say, man, were these thy words?
Save thee, Timon.
Awake the pert and nimble spirit of mirth;
You might do much.
I am transformed, master, am I not?
Why, didst thou not come from heaven?
Which he counts but a trifle.
my prayers; but I cannot go thither.
What doth gravity out of his bed at midnight? Shall
looking out at the window.
Say, what abridgement have you for this evening?
By any understanding pate but thine?
Of such possessions and so high esteem,
Ourselves well sinewed to our defence.
Hide it in smiles and affability:
Re-enter TYBALT
That you will take your instant leave o' the king
It is my lord's.
Your breath first kindled the dead coal of wars
Come, where be these gallants? who's at home?
An hour by his dial. O noble fool!
So I bequeath a happy peace to you
Go thrust him out at gates, and let him smell
Killing that love which thou hast vow'd to cherish;
Could not have made this peace.
lords: they have acquainted me with their
That he is worshipp'd in a baser temple
O, Harry, thou hast robb'd me of my youth!
Bringing the murderous coward to the stake;
To men in joy; but grief makes one hour ten.
Whither away! to save myself by flight:
was. I will get Peter Quince to write a ballad of
Good morrow, Casca. Caius Ligarius,
We have seen him set himself.
I will make fast the doors, and gild myself
Well, nobles, well, 'tis politicly done,
Leave me, and do the thing I bid thee do.
face: if your lordship be in't, as I believe you
Shows us but this: I am sworn brother, sweet,
Upon her nuptial vow, her loyalty,
Enter BRABANTIO, OTHELLO, IAGO, RODERIGO, and Officers
Dumain was at my service, and his sword:
He call'd her whore: a beggar in his drink
And as a bed I'll take them and there lie,
to the goose, proves thee far and wide a broad goose.
behavior vain, ridiculous, and thrasonical. He is
But riches fineless is as poor as winter
Myself were mudded in that oozy bed
Are these things spoken, or do I but dream?
No sleep close up that deadly eye of thine,
Above the rest, be gone.
Get you gone, sirrah.
SCENE I. A street.
their cassocks, lest they shake themselves to pieces.
Spring with my tears! be aidant and remediate
Who is conductor of his people?
To draw upon an exile! O brave sir!
I will away towards Barnet presently,
Save what is opposite to England's love.
she would sooner confess: perchance, publicly,
I call'd thee then vain flourish of my fortune;
To call them both a pair of crafty knaves.
No more amazement: tell your piteous heart
Well, it was proclaimed 'damsel.'
Or, Hubert, if you will, cut out my tongue,
Accords not with the sadness of my suit:
salt water.
My best-esteem'd acquaintance: hie thee, go.
As cherry is to cherry.
Be to thy person, noble father-in-law!
I do remember now: henceforth I'll bear
expecting thy reply, I profane my lips on thy foot,
Now will I dam up this thy yawning mouth
me like men:
two of the house of the Montagues.
In thy uprightness and integrity,
You rascal!
Exeunt all but HASTINGS, RATCLIFF, and LOVEL
And keep not back your powers in dalliance.
my bones: I shall not fear fly-blowing.
In such a time as this it is not meet
spin for her living.
To fetch me trifles, and return again,
'tis a playing-day, I see.
Except immortal Caesar, speaking of Brutus
I'll starve ere I'll rob a foot further. An 'twere
Matters of needful value. We shall write to you,
Noble heroes, my sword and yours are kin. Good
With all my heart I'll sit and hear her sing:
By their oppress'd and fear-surprised eyes,
But, mistress, know yourself: down on your knees,
never liked.
As we rate boys, who, being mature in knowledge,
So hence! Be thou the trumpet of our wrath
Hath seal'd thee for herself; for thou hast been
May I never
where I could not breed no contention with him; but
The manner of thy vile outrageous crimes,
And come to Padua, careless of your life?
To your remembrances: but you have found,
Which since have steaded much; so, of his gentleness,
them, I will describe them; and, according to my
Which was your shame, by this unholy braggart,
And that I love him not as I was wont.
Ye tell me what ye wish for both,--my ruin:
The press of boats or pride: a piece of work
A better head her glorious body fits
My lord, I shall reply amazedly,
Ay, but the feet were lame and could not bear
A carrion Death, within whose empty eye
Betwixt that Holmedon and this seat of ours;
his incensement at this moment is so implacable,
Most mighty prince, my Lord Northumberland,
In the dead vast and middle of the night,
Ay, my noble lord.
Immediately provided in that case.
Well, he in time may come to clear himself;
That it shall please you to declare, in hearing
There's not the meanest spirit on our party
By heaven! my wrath shall far exceed the love
With nought but truth. I have wasted myself out of
But what, but what, come they to visit us?
I pray thee, over-name them; and as thou namest
Which, without note, here's many else have done,--
Sprawl'st thou? take that, to end thy agony.
If thou be he, then art thou prisoner.
If the matter of this paper be certain, you have
Fie, daughter! when my old wife lived, upon
Part us, Northumberland; I toward the north,
That mend upon the world.
Shall we go throw away our coats of steel,
Mortal, to cut it off; to cure it, easy.
the love come from her; they say too that she will
against him: if thou canst cuckold him, thou dost
My lord, when last I went to visit her,
desired in the hearts of his subjects: I would fain
Hath cut her throat already. No, 'tis slander,
Rate me at what thou wilt, thou shalt be paid.
Enter Senators on the walls
Thy heart is big, get thee apart and weep.
No sun shall ever usher forth mine honours,
For, by the image of my cause, I see
And to thee and thy company I bid
Nay, go not from us thus.
'Tis he, I ken the manner of his gait;
Who, you all know, are honourable men:
How, my pretty York? I pray thee, let me hear it.
Against the mind, the which he pricks and wounds
That she will light to listen to the lays,
Woo'd me to steal it; but she so loves the token,
And therefore, since I cannot prove a lover,
To have this young one made a Christian.
Thou art a widow, and thou hast some children;
Dashing the garment of this peace, aboded
And show'd thee all the qualities o' the isle,
That hath a mint of phrases in his brain;
Did utter forth a voice. Yes, thou must die:
Fall into the compass of a praemunire,
Look, here's thy love: my foot and her face see.
thee; look thee, a bearing-cloth for a squire's
Enter LADY MACBETH
With me since first you knew me. But, I pray you,
Or stole it, rather.
Weak shoulders, overborne with burthening grief,
Is torn from forth that pretty hollow cage,
And shake the peace and safety of our throne.
And I will undertake all these to teach.
from whence he was whipped for getting the shrieve's
Now, Esperance! Percy! and set on.
The cruel issue of these bloody men;
Sweet invocation of a child; most pretty and
ANTIPHOLUS
Had been my father's sons! then had my prize
Yet am I sworn and I did purpose, boy,
I had been mercenary.
He passes.
the utmost of your having: back.
shapes, objects, ideas, apprehensions, motions,
If ever lady wrong'd her lord so much,
In purchasing the semblance of my soul
Out of his subject: and we here dispatch
Ho! who's here?
From thee, even from thy virtue!
But earthlier happy is the rose distill'd,
One part of Aquitaine is bound to us,
thee; but being assured none but myself could move
Orsino! I have heard my father name him:
world! the paragon of animals! And yet, to me,
Are you not stronger than you were?
Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame and
His coward lips did from their colour fly,
Musing and sighing, with your arms across,
By working wreakful vengeance on thy foes.
The care I had and have of subjects' good
Which you do here forbid me, royal Priam.
This toil of ours should be a work of thine;
Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind;
Has paid his men their wages: he ne'er drinks,
And we are for the dark.
But always resolute in most extremes.
Yet, ere you shall depart, this we desire,
So did he turn and over Suffolk's neck
Under pardon, sir, what are the contents? or rather,
But we will plant some other in the throne,
Lest it should ravel and be good to none,
And yet partake no venom, for his knowledge
I am less proud to hear you tell my worth
It is not you I call for:
little yellow beard, a Cain-coloured beard.
Exeunt
Thy face is mine, and thou hast slander'd it.
I understand not, madam.
Go make thyself like a nymph o' the sea: be subject
I'll bear thee hence; and let them fight that will,
Eye well to you: your honour calls you hence;
Or yield up Aquitaine.
To do what, signior?
Go, break among the press, and find a way out
between you.
Exeunt with the body
From henceforth bear his name whose form thou bear'st:
'By heaven, that thou art fair, is most infallible;
There is no news, my lord, but that he writes
Dies
My damned son, which thy two sweet sons smother'd.
nor into a pepper-box: but, lest the devil that
without any.
Cousin of Buckingham, though Humphrey's pride
The needful bits and curbs to headstrong weeds,
This shows you are above,
Unheedful vows may heedfully be broken,
Who m eets us here?  my niece Plantagenet
That, like a jewel, has hung twenty years
'Item: She is slow in words.'
O Jew! an upright judge, a learned judge!
But fear the main intendment of the Scot,
never any thing so sudden but the fight of two rams
Now am I fled;
The evil that men do lives after them;
For Antony,
Why,
The fairest I have yet beheld, desires access
Publius, come hither, Caius, and Valentine!
Away towards Salisbury! while we reason here,
He's shrewdly vexed at something: look, he has spied us.
Who mutually hath answer'd my affection,
Nay, rather, wilt thou draw thy forces hence,
money. I tell you for good will, look you: you
List his discourse of war, and you shall hear
Aside
This murder had not come into my mind:
So newly join'd in love, so strong in both,
'Twixt me and one Baptista's daughter here:
Do I impart toward you. For your intent
As Lewis himself: so, nobles, shall you all,
But have I fall'n, or no?
Thy tears are womanish; thy wild acts denote
For such a petty war: his soldiership
And lies, and lies: there is my bond of faith,
SCENE I. A plain in Syria.
How bloodily the sun begins to peer
With greasy aprons, rules, and hammers, shall
oft, which now again you are most apt to play the
Whereof he is the head. Then if he says he loves you,
nay, an thou canst not smile as the wind sits,
Upon this call o' the trumpet.
We stood to't in good time.
That his own hand may strike his honour down
Now, Master Slender: love him, daughter Anne.
Which can make gods forsworn? I melt, and am not
His glorious deeds for my indignities.
Be it so.
And came I not at last to comfort you?
To join with Mortimer, ha?
Exeunt all but the BASTARD
From the true seed of honour! and how much honour
Protest my ears were never better fed
My father had a daughter loved a man,
Ha, ha!
the face of the gods.
'Faith, once or twice she heaved the name of 'father'
Thy wife is proud; she holdeth thee in awe,
When you have said 'she's goodly,' come between
Nay, if the gentle spirit of moving words
Glad am I that your highness is so arm'd
How will she love, when the rich golden shaft
can construe the action of her familiar style; and
Sir, the people
Then thou dwellest with daws too?
Did she see thee the while, old boy? tell me that.
You bid them rise, and live.
Accept of him, or else you do me wrong:
see if I can eat grass, or pick a sallet another
Either get thee from the door, or sit down at the hatch.
worm-eaten nut.
PAROLLES.'
Would I were able to load him with his desert! Will
I should repent the evils I have done:
Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,
SCENE II. Ephesus. A room in CERIMON's house.
Such commendations as becomes a maid,
And yet not so, for what can we bequeath
Good even. Friar, where's the provost?
Leave him to my displeasure. Edmund, keep you our
To the freshest things now reigning and make stale
We will meet; and there we may rehearse most
Which was to my belief witness'd the rather,
And their rough carriage so ridiculous,
Because he should have swallowed me too: and when I
So I will, my liege, as I live.
As doubtful thoughts, and rash-embraced despair,
Why I should yield to thee?
What ho! Horatio!
not where. If I travel but four foot by the squier
A mother to the birth of three? Ne'er mother
It is, indeed: if you will have it in showing, you
What kind of catechising call you this?
I was with Hercules and Cadmus once,
An understanding simple and unschool'd:
Ay, dat is very good; excellent.
And would not, but in fury, fright my youth:
But stir not you till you have well determined
The enemies' drum is heard, and fearful scouring
Good night; and better health
Exeunt
Doth it not then our eyelids sink? I find not
Two long days' journey, lords, or ere we meet.
Wert thou not banished on pain of death?
An apple, cleft in two, is not more twin
That noble-minded Titus means to thee!
O, your desert speaks loud; and I should wrong it,
Shall we at last conclude effeminate peace?
Whose unavoided eye is murderous.
Was he met there? his train? Camillo with him?
Is Gilliams with the packet gone?
Little have you to say
Out, dunghill!
bold-beating oaths, under the shelter of your
And, which is more than all these boasts can be,
Led by a delicate and tender prince,
It makes us, or it mars us; think on that,
Through casements darted their desiring eyes
Here, Hastings; I will never more remember
God-a-mercy, old heart! thou speak'st cheerfully.
The king's physician: as he pass'd along,
Come, father, I'll bestow you with a friend.
display to the night.
mirth: Heaven forgive me! Why, I'll exhibit a bill
Not paying me a welcome. Trust me, sweet,
The valiant Duke of Bedford. Come, my lord,
The which my love and some necessity
To bring him to the haven; left these notes
So are you, princes English, every one.
come out. Ha! bots on't, 'tis come at last, and
You be convey'd to the Tower a prisoner;
Hearing of your arrival in this realm,
Not all these, laid in bed majestical,
Than if not look'd on. I will lead the way.
Who with her head nimble in threats approach'd
Agamemnon!
I'll follow instantly.
talk of horse and armour?
Fare you well, gentlemen.
revel and applause, transform ourselves into beasts!
To pluck him headlong from the usurped throne.
And the flesh'd soldier, rough and hard of heart,
Which, cunningly effected, will beget
it cannot be sounded: my affection hath an unknown
There sleeps Titania sometime of the night,
From the possession of this heavenly sight!
Besides the gods, for this great miracle.
His time is spent, our pilgrimage must be.
And would have rent it. Another word, Menenius,
Are now so sure that nothing can dissolve us.
a harmless fairy, has done little better than
by this hand, I'll turn my mercy out o' doors
No, sir; he stays for you to conduct him thither.
Of whence are you?
These counties were the keys of Normandy.
'Sicilia is a so-forth:' 'tis far gone,
You will not own it.
There, Diomed there.
And ready are the appellant and defendant,
To season love, that of it doth not taste!
father will hence to-night.
Enter SILVIA, VALENTINE, THURIO, and SPEED
or, rather, as you say, my mother: therefore no
And doleful dumps the mind oppress,
would preferment drop on my head. I brought the old
For here the Trojans taste our dear'st repute
And, from the place where you behold us now,
In favour's like the work we have in hand,
The least a death to nature.
Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard;
And, being angry, does forget that ever
Though all the world's vastidity you had,
And shuddering fear, and green-eyed jealousy! O love,
It lies much in your holding up. Haste you speedily
O fair affliction, peace!
Even thou and none but thou. Take it up straight:
Stand not amazed; here is no remedy:
I am glad to see you in this merry vein:
Upon his good and gracious nature hanging
news is old enough, yet it is every day's news. I
Some say a sore; but not a sore, till now made
Exeunt
Most worthy sir, you therein throw away
Before the curing of a strong disease,
better told.
Our musty superfluity. See, our best elders.
O, reason not the need: our basest beggars
Mine host Pistol, you must come to my master, and
Over whom, in time to come, I hope to reign;
The fit and apt construction of thy name,
He hath bought a pair of cast lips of Diana: a nun
which I will add
And unsuspected court her by herself.
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, LAERTES, Lords, OSRIC, and Attendants with foils,  and c
Exit BARDOLPH
To be her men and wear her livery:
When I shall pray, 'O bless my lord and husband!'
Thou tremblest at, answer that I shall ask;
As high in the air as this unthankful king,
I go of message from the queen to France;
I wish I had a cause to seek him there,
I have charged thee not to haunt about my doors:
much more, much worse.
What love could press Lysander from my side?
For womanish it is to be from thence.
put the moon in his pocket, we will pay him tribute
With a priest that lacks Latin and a rich man that
Exeunt
I'll give you leave to powder me and eat me too
Persuade my heart to this false perjury?
Talk not of France, sith thou hast lost it all.
SONG.
Ill blows the wind that profits nobody.
Unless a man would marry a gallows and beget young
He shall in strangeness stand no further off
Enter HELENA, disguised like a Pilgrim
That you might kill your stomach on your meat
O, he is mad, Laertes.
Advance your standards, and upon them, lords;
Throw your mistemper'd weapons to the ground,
I heard your guilty rhymes, observed your fashion,
ACT II
Art thou aught else but place, degree and form,
Let us to France; like horse-leeches, my boys,
between Macedon and Monmouth, that the situations,
And there's an oath of credit.
Sweep your way for you. Pray you, look not sad,
And take perforce my husband from the abbess.
As she is prized to have--as to refuse
Of the imperial theme.--I thank you, gentlemen.
Our hope in him is dead: let us return,
England is safe, if true within itself?
The thankings of a king.
And satisfy the deputy with the visage
the common people.
pains to thank me: if it had been painful, I would
You have not been inquired after:
Of our proceedings kept the earl from hence:
Like him you are: did you not name a tempest,
Which hath our several honours all engaged
is so forward, and afoot too! I hate it.
Have more than thou showest,
To give them this discomfort? Look, they weep;
Caesar: and that, having in Sicily
And I am Brutus, Marcus Brutus, I;
Is there division 'twixt my lord and Cassio?
Is yet but unfelt thanks, which more enrich'd
not, she has the mends in her own hands.
I would they had not come between us.
I will seek him, sir, presently: convey the
Exit Attendant
What satisfaction canst thou have to-night?
He doth me wrong to feed me with delays.
First go with me to church and call me wife,
You need not fear, lady, the having any of these
But Kate, the prettiest Kate in Christendom
That we shall make in time, from our hence-going
And wild amazement hurries up and down
Yearly will I do this rite.
But now he parted hence, to embark for Milan.
And was at last out-faced by Bolingbroke?
Than what you should, made you against the grain
Digging
To be deposed and shortly murdered.
Enter the PRINCESS of France, ROSALINE, MARIA, KATHARINE, BOYET, Lords, and other Attendants
Ford differs! To thy great comfort in this mystery
Do their gay vestments his affections bait?
Ovidius Naso was the man: and why, indeed, Naso,
Offer'st me brass?
If by which time our secret be undone,
Be every man himself?
Unless my sins abuse my divination--
Heigh-ho! sing, heigh-ho! unto the green holly:
He's a disease that must be cut away.
There were a heart in Egypt.
Exeunt TROILUS and CRESSIDA
We are beholding to you, good Andronicus.
Very true, and but a month old.
'Item: She can sew.'
Casca, you are the first that rears your hand.
prologues to a bad voice?
Or shall we think the subtle-witted French
If it be aught to the old tune, my lord,
By cutting off your heads: thus hath he sworn
And in the neck of that, task'd the whole state:
My lord?
Now, brother of Gloucester, Lord Hastings, and the rest,
And all-thing unbecoming.
What, is my daughter gone to Friar Laurence?
Exit
And that my sovereign's presence makes me mild,
conjure and raise devils, but I'll see some issue of
By the very truth of it, I care not for you,
By the yea and no, I think the 'oman is a witch
But she, more covetous, would have a chain.
The mayor in courtesy show'd me the castle,
This is my daughter's jointure, for no more
Find such another master.
What prisoners of good sort are taken, uncle?
That's the curse of Rome.
To such a person and in such a place,
Than still contemn'd and flatter'd. To be worst,
Thou art the cause, and most accursed effect.
and by such two that would by all likelihood have
Exit
Madam, your uncle Pandarus.
I'll be sworn 'tis true; he will weep you, an 'twere
To all our sorrows, and ere long I doubt.
Why, how now, Adam! no greater heart in thee? Live
Enter BALTHASAR with Music
Twenty crowns!
Ay, lord; she will become thy bed, I warrant.
cuffs in the question.
Falstaff, kind Jack Falstaff, true Jack Falstaff,
And here I take Cordelia by the hand,
And blemish Caesar's triumph. Let him take thee,
Not so, gentle beast:
Persuades me it is otherwise: howe'er it be,
He shall be answerable; and so farewell.
And then I told you true: and yet, dear lady,
Thou wrong'st a gentleman, who is as far
You are to blame, my lord, to rate her so.
I would I could have spoken with the woman herself;
Welcome, lady.
Safer shall he be upon the sandy plains
Is in one mile: if they have measured many,
I mean to tug it and to cuff you soundly:
For beauty starved with her severity
Thou wouldst have told this tale for virtue, not
Is it possible?
To prove, by wit, worth in simplicity.
And, let your father make her the assurance,
When I did speak of some distressful stroke
There's his period,
Which time shall bring to ripeness: she shall be--
tailor's-yard, you sheath, you bowcase; you vile
Then must my earth with her continual tears
Delay not, Caesar; read it instantly.
And, madam, these for you; from whom I know not.
Itself, and all my treason; that I suffer'd
Ay, mistress, and Petruchio is the master;
Counsel me, Tranio, for I know thou canst;
Marry, for Justice, she is so employ'd,
him: he is indeed a horse; and all other jades you
Wherefore did you so?
Good Bardolph, put thy face between his sheets, and
Till he unseam'd him from the nave to the chaps,
And tent themselves with death. Of all the horses,
The citizens are mum and speak not a word.
King John did fly an hour or two before
Holds hand with any princess of the world.
And for myself, foe as he was to me,
I have heard her reported to be a woman of an
A good traveller is something at the latter end of a
A combless cock, so Kate will be my hen.
Another dowry to another daughter,
O masters, if I were disposed to stir
Alas, poor soul!
Exeunt
To follow this fair corse unto her grave:
ANTIPHOLUS
O Kate, nice customs curtsy to great kings. Dear
my trot, dere is no duke dat the court is know to
Your grace shall give me leave, my Lord of York,
We rest your hermits.
Henry the Seventh succeeding, truly pitying
Could not keep quiet in his conscience,
Ah, that same pale hard-hearted wench, that Rosaline.
Which is our honour, bitter torture shall
His lands to me, and took it on his death
All the stored vengeances of heaven fall
The ministration and required office
Exeunt Citizens with the body
I further know not.
So fast they follow; your sister's drown'd, Laertes.
a coranto? My very walk should be a jig; I would not
There with fantastic garlands did she come
Most wisely hath Ulysses here discover'd
Comest thou with deep premeditated lines,
Is there any way to show such friendship?
hope thou didst feign.
I doubt not then but innocence shall make
Throw this report on their incensed rage,
Bondage is hoarse, and may not speak aloud;
Mercy is not itself, that oft looks so;
Ay, and said nothing but what I protest intendment of doing.
We for the worthiest hold the right from both.
Nothing, sir, but that I am beaten.
Alas, what joy shall noble Talbot have
And pluck'd two crutches from my feeble limbs,
Come, here's the map: shall we divide our right
And see the noble ruin'd man you speak of.
their brains! that we should, with joy, pleasance
His wife who wins me by that means I told you,
in peril of my life with the edge of a feather-bed;
Which, God he knows, I saw not: for the which
That she is not so fair as, of you, well-favoured.
of his salt and most hidden loose affection? why,
The heart of Brutus yearns to think upon!
Enter NERISSA with a Servitor
At your best leisure, this his humble suit.
Cassius, be content.
And see how one another lends content
That carries anger as the flint bears fire;
woman. Him I, as my ever-esteemed duty pricks me on,
Enter GONERIL, and OSWALD, her steward
It is the soldier's; I by bargain should
That I desire to hear her speak again,
Which in their summer beauty kiss'd each other.
Dispatch.
signior, walk aside with me: I have studied eight
To fierce and bloody inclination.
for her favours, I could lay on like a butcher and
Prick him down, Antony.
not to dog him: they say he keeps a Trojan
A peevish schoolboy, worthless of such honour,
Behold the window of my heart, mine eye,
Were almost like a sharp-quill'd porpentine;
And in my conscience do repute his grace
Than e'er the coward hand of France can win:
With such loud reason to the Cyprus wars,
To Master Brook you yet shall hold your word
Or else my kingdom stands on brittle glass.
An unauthorized kiss.
top and instantly break with you of it.
commonwealth; as which of you shall not? With this
Sad and solemn music
Re-enter FABIAN, with MALVOLIO
This was your husband. Look you now, what follows:
Cry within
I mentioned a son o' the king's, which Florizel
Alas the heavy day! Why do you weep?
Not knowing them until we know their grave:
Even this.
You Capulet; shall go along with me:
from his mad humour of love to a living humour of
Contemn with mows the other; nor i' the judgment,
And slaughter'd those that were the means to help him;
Was the crown offered him thrice?
With less allegiance in it! Men that make
Knowing how hardly I can brook abuse?
he cannot study, and the other lives merrily because
Why in that rawness left you wife and child,
Enter FORD, PAGE, SHALLOW, DOCTOR CAIUS, and SIR HUGH EVANS
You would not make me such an argument.
Then here's a man stands, that has brought his pardon.
Exeunt
Of direst cruelty! make thick my blood;
Exeunt
Came on the part of York, press'd by his master;
know to be his character, the majesty of the
At Berkley castle.
fortune-telling. She works by charms, by spells,
That excellent complexion, which did steal
I Richard's body have interred anew;
bill; and many a time, when I have been dry and
Madam, I have a secret to reveal.
If well-respected honour bid me on,
into a yoke, wear the print of it and sigh away
A wonder!
He is not doubted. A word, Lucilius;
My lord, I warrant you we will play our part,
Long live our sovereign Richard, England's king!
A headless man! The garments of Posthumus!
Why do you speak so startingly and rash?
In to our tent; the air is raw and cold.
A most harsh one, and not to be understood without
O, 'tis treason!
Follow'd the old man forth: he is return'd.
If the great gods be just, they shall assist
Exeunt
You will demand of me why I do this?
To him will we prove loyal: till that time
The gutter'd rocks and congregated sands--
They have the gift to know it: and in his brain,
Thank your majesty.
Thou hast done a deed whereat valour will weep.
As the indifferent children of the earth.
They were suborn'd:
All purity, all trial, all observance;
For, by the honour of my parents, I
Thou mayst revenge. O slave!
I'll follow thee a month, devise with thee
Or what is he of basest function
An we do not, it is pity of our lives.
It is a creature that I teach to fight,
Most valour, spoke not for them: the accusation
His issue disinherited should be;
thy fool to lie: I would fain learn to lie.
upon't! what have I forgot?
lives; that I mean to make bold withal, and as you
Were in Arabia, and thy tribe before him,
any thing, and call it purchase. Bardolph stole a
What sayest thou? speak suddenly; be brief.
Because that John hath made his peace with Rome?
And did deserve his change: for what I have conquer'd,
Bid her have good heart:
When in that moment, so it came to pass,
When every one will give the time of day,
and buck-baskets! Well, I will proclaim myself
Midway between your tents and walls of Troy,
Peace!
And what with Owen Glendower's absence thence,
Then come kiss me, sweet and twenty,
This was strange chance
In iron walls they deem'd me not secure;
Our means will make us means.
business, I am therefore no courtier? I am courtier
Or force of Greekish sinews; you shall do more
No longer Earl of March, but Duke of York:
First let me know, and then I'll answer you.
I have been bold--
Do you not hear him? You mar our labour: keep your
I come to thee for charitable licence,
Was still inscribed; in which you brought the king
And lack not to lose still: thus, Indian-like,
Wanting the manage of unruly jades.
ANTIPHOLUS
bottom, like the bay of Portugal.
I cannot live out of her company.
That will I, Pompey.
the world, and to live in a nook merely monastic.
From a resolved and honourable war,
For I will henceforth be no more unconstant.
England ne'er had a king until his time.
Is numbering sands and drinking oceans dry:
Sir, my gracious lord,
My traffic is sheets; when the kite builds, look to
Almost no better than so many French;
A dedicated beggar to the air,
With secrets.
A year before: it is not to be question'd
Why such unplausive eyes are bent on him:
From these that my poor company detest:
Fie, painted rhetoric! O, she needs it not:
and lady dear!'
And when your mistress hears thus much from you,
Have got the mannish crack, sing him to the ground,
Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
being made,
Than to work any. Will you rhyme upon't,
Foh! prithee, stand away: a paper from fortune's
That shall make answer to such questions
And I, who at his hands received my life, him
We have.
But not take in the mind.
Shall I not live to be avenged on her?
how to choose a man: Romeo! no, not he; though his
Hold, Toby; on thy life I charge thee, hold!
She is dead too, our sovereign.
Forthwith that Edward be pronounced a traitor,
'Well!' why, I do so.
crutches ere he was born desire yet their life to
But blessedly holp hither.
Knock at the gate! O heavens! Spake you not these
I found it by the barrenness; hard in the palm of the hand.
Unfold it.
All the better; their fraction is more our wish than
Groan! why, no.
And scants us with a single famish'd kiss,
Sebastian is thy name? I like thee well
never fell upon our nation till now; I never felt it
Fear not: the forest is not three leagues off;
Well met, Corporal Nym.
Your sword upon a woman?
But falls into abatement and low price,
Death, in guerdon of her wrongs,
He is an absolute master.
his recognizances, his fines, his double vouchers,
plum-tree gum and that they have a plentiful lack of
'Tis not his new-made bride shall succor him:
But be he as he will, yet once ere night
I'll have no speaking: I will have my bond.
I am very loath to be your idol, sir;
As Cerberus at the Thracian poet's feet.
But in all places else your master Lucentio.
Hear me, you wrangling pirates, that fall out
Lest he that is the supreme King of kings
Respecting what a rancorous mind he bears
Between whose endless jar justice resides,
The queen, the courtiers: who is this they follow?
And break the foresaid peace. Let the king know,
Or we are Romans and will give you that
I thank your grace; the gift hath made me happy.
I have spoke already, and it is provided;
SCENE I. Rome. A street.
How now, Lorenzo!
Mistress Ford, by my troth, you are very well met:
horse with any that treads but on four pasterns.
Women! Help Heaven! men their creation mar
Not to be weary with you, he's in prison.
No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day,
O, fie upon thee, slanderer!
Upon her skinny lips: you should be women,
I will, my lord.
I stretch it out for that word 'broad;' which added
for him. Cotus!
When you sally upon him, speak what terrible
Toward that shade I might behold addrest
To yield the ghost: but still the envious flood
inward between us, let it pass. I do beseech thee,
Farewell, Monsieur Traveller: look you lisp and
Was sulphurous to smell: the holy eagle
And I will fit thee with the remedy.
I would I had been there.
nothing, is to have rich eyes and poor hands.
As I can of those mysteries which heaven
The news I have to tell your majesty
You have as little honesty as honour,
Here is her oath for love, her honour's pawn.
I see we still did meet each other's man,
Such welcome and unwelcome things at once
Not Neoptolemus so mirable,
And to be shortly of a sisterhood,
That bear this mutual heavy load of moan,
We scarcely think our miseries our foes.
Were I a man, a duke, and next of blood,
As you are certainly a gentleman, thereto
torment the poor lady worse.
Does by their own insinuation grow:
I will continue that I broach'd in jest.
And I will kiss thy foot: I prithee, be my god.
That ever did contain a thing of worth.
All the remain is 'Welcome!'
For a short holding: if we lose the field,
In rage deaf as the sea, hasty as fire.
In every lineament, branch, shape, and form:
O sinful thought! Never so rich a gem
SCENE I. Athens. A hall in Timon's house.
And a demand who is't shall die, I'd say
And be not from his reason fall'n thereon,
His venom tooth will rankle to the death:
And it shall privilege him from your hands
I hope your warrant will bear out the deed.
And wrath o'erwhelm'd my pity: I request you
Yet you are wither'd.
you. O you gods, think I, what need we have any
Upon the next live creature that it sees.
conclusion. For thy part, Claudio, I did think to
Rich scarf to my proud earth; why hath thy queen
When second husband kisses me in bed.
With you, mine alder-liefest sovereign,
For fear, I promise you, if I look pale.
Enter BRUTUS and CASSIUS, and a throng of Citizens
Lay hold upon him: if he do resist,
ANTIPHOLUS
A crack, madam.
And, by just computation of the time,
And follow me, that will to some provision
Yes, brother, you may live:
What means Sicilia?
Mourn not, except thou sorrow for my good;
And yet herein I judge mine own wit good--
Fain would I woo her, yet I dare not speak:
Armado is a most illustrious wight,
Dangers, doubts, wringing of the conscience,
Aaron, it must; the mother wills it so.
Farewell, good Charles.
Before mine uncle: I'll observe his looks;
he'll smile and take't for a great favour.
she may perhaps call him half a score knaves or so:
Hath often still'd my brawling discontent.
How needless was it then to ask the question!
Thy country's strength and weakness,--thine own ways;
Thou didst not know on't. Who comes here? O heavens,
Who hath upon him still that natural stamp:
therefore, back to Rome, and prepare for your
Now Hercules be thy speed, young man!
A little joy enjoys the queen thereof;
For where thou art, there is the world itself,
'Twas very strange.
Farewell, mad wenches; you have simple wits.
Now, Master Slender,--
What,
contemplation, mark, and denotement of her parts and
mighty business in hand.
There's a great spirit gone! Thus did I desire it:
'Twas pitiful, 'twas wondrous pitiful:
Which she did use as she was writing of it,
We will persuade him, be it possible,
That things might change or cease; tears his white hair,
Was Milan thrust from Milan, that his issue
The silence often of pure innocence
is to behold him with flies blown to death. But what
Upon this fairest prisoner.
You'll show a little honesty.
If you be king, why should not I succeed?
This milky gentleness and course of yours
Pick'd from the chaff and ruin of the times
Darest thou maintain the former words thou spakest?
What, must it, nurse? then let no man but I
Therefore come you with us and let him go.
his own glass, his own trumpet, his own chronicle;
Which now are midway stopp'd:
If it be that, or any that was hers,
Women and fools, break off your conference.
What's best to ask. Know'st him thou look'st on? speak,
Where are the evidence that do accuse me?
pageant of Ajax.
If heaven will take the present at our hands.
The more fool, madonna, to mourn for your brother's
She must, the saints must have her; yet a virgin,
The sharded beetle in a safer hold
I'll write unto them and entreat them fair.
Read to her sons than she hath read to thee
When Julius Caesar, whose remembrance yet
Let him to field; Troilus, alas! hath none.
Let him that thinks of me so abjectly
Very many, men and women too. I heard of one of
Let him alone, for I remember now
Knocking within
We do not act that often jest and laugh;
He capers nimbly in a lady's chamber
Has friendship such a faint and milky heart,
It toucheth you, my lord, as much as me.
Again possess her corpse, and on this stage,
Have every pelting river made so proud
'Swounds, show me what thou'lt do:
man for coughing in the street, because he hath
Unless, perchance, you come to me again,
she holds it a vice in her goodness not to do more
be as it may: though patience be a tired mare, yet
And, till so much blood thither come again,
As 'tis no better reckon'd, but of those
Quick, quick, I pray thee; draw the curtain straight:
Which give some soil perhaps to my behaviors;
Let none think flattery, for they'll find 'em truth.
motion generative; that's infallible.
Who in rebellion with himself will have
Bear her my true love's kiss; and so, farewell.
Unto my cell.
[Drawing]  How now! a rat? Dead, for a ducat, dead!
Of Edward king, the third of that descent:
How often dost thou with thy case, thy habit,
With one fool's head I came to woo,
drink, and drink sooner than pray: and yet, zounds,
To shake all cares and business from our age;
The rudeness that hath appeared in me have I
Which I did store to be my foster-nurse
Thou shalt be logger-head. Good faith, 'tis day:
But the main article I do approve
The Great.
a bird? who would give a bird the lie, though he cry
Strumpet, thy words condemn thy brat and thee:
Yes, madam, and moreover
These late eclipses in the sun and moon portend
Yea, yea, my lord: I'll yield him thee asleep,
I thank you for this profit; and from hence
Which parti-coated presence of loose love
Might you dispense with your leisure, I would by and
Which honour and allegiance cannot think.
Decline your head: this kiss, if it durst speak,
Thou shall present me as an eunuch to him:
In all your business and necessities.
Weeds of Athens he doth wear:
The sea will ebb and flow, heaven show his face;
From forth the fatal loins of these two foes
Can I do this, and cannot get a crown?
No if thou dost say 'no' to my demand.
I will have none on't: we shall lose our time,
Be brave, then; for your captain is brave, and vows
You are unkind, Demetrius; be not so;
So well, that what you bid me undertake,
By bloody hands, in sleeping on your beds!
I slew him there.
A round hose, madam, now's not worth a pin,
I accuse them not.
Your hands than mine are quicker for a fray,
That is the voice,
Good news, good news; the ladies have prevail'd,
Nor heaven nor earth have been at peace to-night:
How my achievements mock me!
Is free for me to ask, thee to bestow.
There's something else to do: hush, and be mute,
Might be my question.
I will not part with a village of it; I will have it
That any harm should stain so fair a show!
general, that, upon certain tidings now arrived,
A woman, I dare say without vain-glory,
Now, herald, are the dead number'd?
And not a serpent's poison. Say, our pleasure,
Worthy Camillo,
Exeunt
You are in the right. Good night, lieutenant; I
All the conspirators save only he
France, triumph in thy glorious prophetess!
An you part so, mistress, I would I might never
The expedition my violent love
That fools should be so deep-contemplative,
Thyself I call it, being strange to me,
This is the pearl that pleased your empress' eye,
Goodly Lord, what a wit-snapper are you! then bid
Runs on his sword
Go, take hence that traitor from our sight;
And then, I grant, we put a sting in him,
With so fun soul, but some defect in her
If none appear to prove upon thy head
If she, my liege, can make me know this clearly,
Upon their woes whom fortune captivates!
Which is from my remembrance! Please you, farther.
SCENE IV. Windsor Park.
This nothing's more than matter.
I have spoke this, to know if your affiance
Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounced it to
Would I had a rod in my mouth, that I might answer
He little cares for and a daughter who
Grace and remembrance be to you both,
De elbow. Je m'en fais la repetition de tous les
And in the morning early shall my uncle
But, sure, some Tereus hath deflowered thee,
from court and is less frequent to his princely
Exit
Escaped the hunt. No port is free; no place,
That had a court no bigger than this cave,
To join in Hymen's bands,
But what's the matter?
Look here, upon this picture, and on this,
Seek him, Titinius, whilst I go to meet
Mortality and mercy in Vienna
Could all but answer for that peevish brat?
The kettle-drum and trumpet thus bray out
There shall your master have a thousand loves,
then you will play bare-faced. But, masters, here
Sans fable, she herself reviled you there.
And this.
She was the first fruit of my bachelorship.
cover; they show well outward. The prince and Count
Betwixt you and the cardinal. I advise you--
Come apace, good Audrey: I will fetch up your
us that are squires of the night's body be called
No; I pray thee speak in sober judgment.
Since you lack virtue, I will lose a husband;
Though Rome be therefore angry: Mulmutius made our laws,
Without a heart to dare or sword to draw
Holds in his blood such swoln and hot discourse
For goodness' sake, consider what you do;
An you will not be answered with reason, I must die.
Thyself a queen, for me that was a queen,
Prove that I cannot, take me home again,
Mark me now; now will I raise the waters. Talk you
Make thine own edict for thy pains, which we
That love I begg'd for you he begg'd of me.
Defy them then, or else hold close thy lips.
We do, and vow to heaven and to his highness,
By means whereof his highness hath lost France.
Enter, with drum and colours, EDMUND, REGAN, Gentlemen, and Soldiers.
Their proper selves.
Not learning more than the fond eye doth teach;
Ripeness is all: come on.
Will you go with me? We'll mend our dinner here?
O, if you raise this house against this house,
Both now and ever bless her! 'tis a girl,
We'll see your trinkets here all forthcoming.
Upon that day either prepare to die
To see her tears; but be your heart to them
This letter from Bellario doth commend
If frosts and fasts, hard lodging and thin weeds
And make bold power look pale--they threw their caps
In her pavilion--cloth-of-gold of tissue--
Outswell the colic of puff'd Aquilon:
His bloody sword he brandish'd over me,
A piteous corse, a bloody piteous corse;
Send quickly to Sir John, to know his mind.
What store her heart is made on. Stop her there!
For who so firm that cannot be seduced?
I should be arguing still upon that doubt:
Punish my life for tainting of my love!
Faith, the priest was good enough, for all the old
they never meet but there's a skirmish of wit
and patient churchman. You must go with me, master doctor.
The owl shriek'd at thy birth,--an evil sign;
let to know it is.
With plumed helm thy slayer begins threats;
Now will I hence to seek my lovely Moor,
SCENE I. London. The palace.
Farewell.
Exeunt
Keep your hundred pounds to yourself: he shall
O, had the monster seen those lily hands
Once more to-day well met, distemper'd lords!
The king will bid you battle presently.
The language I have learn'd these forty years,
For queen, a very caitiff crown'd with care;
Let mine own judgment pattern out my death,
That fair Queen Isabel, his grandmother,
Ordain'd our laws, whose use the sword of Caesar
And you, forsooth, had the good duke to keep:
Our project's life this shape of sense assumes:
Is there not my father, my uncle and myself? lord
Hate counsels not in such a quality.
Have I since your departure had, my lords.
To bear her burthen, whether I will or no,
Is now due debt. To the grave!
Behold, I have a weapon;
The fishermen, that walk upon the beach,
I thank you: God be with you!
Snatching an axe from a Servant and killing him
Jack Cade, the Duke of York hath taught you this.
redemption for this.
mum, you are he: graces will appear, and there's an
Vent my folly! he has heard that word of some
A man of stricture and firm abstinence,
It is too late.
Re-enter the PRINCESS, ushered by BOYET, ROSALINE, MARIA, and KATHARINE
and, he returning to break our necks, they respect not us.
Montjoy.
Should ravish doters with a false aspect;
Every one that does so is a traitor, and must be hanged.
Were mine at once. No, come thou home, Rousillon,
What, can you do me greater harm than hate?
Draws, and wounds RODERIGO
Richard and Hastings: let them go; here is The duke.
Come, strike up!
What do you see? you see an asshead of your own, do
And purchase friends and give to courtezans,
Thrice is he armed that hath his quarrel just,
And, like a Sinon, take another Troy.
Enter FALSTAFF and PISTOL
You know that I held Epicurus strong
Shake it off. Come on;
Shall darken him for ever.
Of thrice three times the value of this bond.
The Moor, howbeit that I endure him not,
But there, where I have garner'd up my heart,
A hundred pound in gold more than your loss.
Fain would mine eyes be witness with mine ears,
I will.
Exit
That we adjourn this court till further day:
Exit
Ay, and it doth confirm
To this last costly treaty, the interview,
Come, Balthasar, we'll hear that song again.
You shall be king.
How this dead queen re-lives?
When one is one too many? Go, get thee from the door.
A man in much esteem with the king, and truly
Die, damned wretch, the curse of her that bare thee;
Did practise on my state, your being in Egypt
Enter WILLIAM
And such a welcome as I'd give to him
We first address towards you, who with this king
Nor windy suspiration of forced breath,
God comfort thee! Why dost thou smile so and kiss
his heart for a favour.
Whereto if you'll a willing ear incline,
Enter DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO and MOTH
My lord?
They lie indrench'd. I tell thee I am mad
Why, how now, general! no more of that.
And in that time
Exeunt TROILUS and AENEAS
How now, Catesby, what says your lord?
Enter ROSALIND and CELIA
The more I love, the more he hateth me.
And I in all unwillingness will go.
Good Signior Leonato, you are come to meet your
Bend their best studies, heartily request
Where yet she never was.
To say thou dost not: therefore tell me true;
May the two latter darken and expend;
Before we will lay down our just-borne arms,
Thy reason, dear venom, give thy reason.
O, when the last account 'twixt heaven and earth
Now, good Mistress Anne,--
Hath my behavior given to your displeasure,
Give me your hand:
Seem to besiege and make his bold waves tremble,
Why, this is your own folly. Did not I tell you how
Razed out my imprese, leaving me no sign,
As morning roses newly wash'd with dew:
Come, stand thou by our side;
As many and as well-born bloods as those,--
Who told me, in the narrow seas that part
Of twenty men, it would dispatch you straight.
Give your worship good morrow.
Or in thy piteous heart plant thou thine ear;
For them to play at will. How came the posterns
I will embrace him with a soldier's arm,
To groan and sweat under the business,
And well deserved: not helping, death's my fee;
for the place where; where, I mean, I did encounter
As many fresh streams meet in one salt sea;
If you'll bestow a small--of what you have little--
Health and all happiness to my lord the king!
To courtship and such fair ostents of love
Arise my knights o' the battle: I create you
Or feed on nourishing dishes, or keep you warm,
on his head a demi-coronal of gold. With
Is there scarce ask'd for who; and good men's lives
your reasons:
To rid us of the fear we have of him.
Ay, sir, and wherefore; for they say every why hath
Here's such a coil! come, what says Romeo?
With Roger Bolingbroke, the conjurer?
Therefore, for goodness' sake, and as you are known
Ay, a tailor, sir: a stone-cutter or painter could
Tell us this: have you any thing to take to?
And made their bends adornings: at the helm
By the Lord, thou art a traitor to say so: thou
The troubled Tiber chafing with her shores,
They lose it that do buy it with much care:
Where's the fool now?
And on this north side win this cape of land;
By nothing; for this is no oath:
For God's sake, let us sit upon the ground
With ransom of such shame. Would yet he had lived!
Stood on her cheeks, as doth the honey-dew
Away, my lord! you are slow; for shame, away!
For then he's full of matter.
An if you do, you will but make it blush
But you have done more miracles than I;
As amply titled as Achilles is,
To blaze your marriage, reconcile your friends,
Can you make no use of your discontent?
That thou but lead'st this fashion of thy malice
Go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body
And I the house of York.
Let's hear it.
Make good this ostentation, and you shall
Whose title they admit, Arthur's or John's.
it pleaseth their deities to take the wife of a man
Or with an outstretch'd throat I'll tell the world aloud
If thou but frown on me, or stir thy foot,
Here, Diomed, keep this sleeve.
I know what 'tis to love;
'Tis at the tuft of olives here hard by.
There is no force in the decrees of Venice.
I'll to the Centaur, to go seek this slave:
Of his heart's meteors tilting in his face?
A day in April never came so sweet,
Which when I saw, I reprehended them;
And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
Be not offended, dear Cesario.
all-hailed me 'Thane of Cawdor;' by which title,
As captain shall: simply the thing I am
Exeunt
My mind presumes, for his own good and ours.
Or for some frontier?
Take thy commission.
Whose breath, indeed, these hands have newly stopp'd:
travel; it might pass: yet the scarfs and the
Tongues I'll hang on every tree,
And three examples of the like have been
Fouler than heart can think thee, thou canst make
[Aside]  A material fool!
That made the overture of thy treasons to us;
No, let me speak; and let me rail so high,
In faith,
Of reasonable affairs? is he not stupid
Villains!
Hark, how Troy roars! how Hecuba cries out!
If they'll do neither, we will come to them,
Have glow'd like plated Mars, now bend, now turn,
And I for no woman.
Take your commission; hie you to your bands:
And he our subjects' next degree in hope.
With wit enough for thee.
Until thy head be circled with the same.
You have been noble towards her.
Which shows that beauty hath his power and will,
Will be deceived; for, gentle hearers, know,
Too late he died that might have kept that title,
Hang up your ensign, let your drums be still,
Of the extreme verge: for all beneath the moon
And you. Good night, good night.
And I have better news in store for you
Which is the villain? let me see his eyes,
Re-enter Provost
I died for hope ere I could lend thee aid:
The smile mocking the sigh, that it would fly
The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars,
I have this twelvemonth been her bedfellow.
More of thee merited than a band of Clotens
brother, was a villain.
And like a dog that is compell'd to fight,
As if increase of appetite had grown
At Worcester must his body be interr'd;
then, peace be with him.
And be avenged on cursed Tamora.
Ha!
Which we have not done neither: that, I fear,
Not going from itself; but eye to eye opposed
Enow to press a royal merchant down
Brutus, thou sleep'st: awake!'
good will to the maid?
Yet let us watch the haughty cardinal:
It is determined, not concluded yet:
The best, for the innocence.
them. I hope I need not to advise you further; but
As far as toucheth my particular,
How earnestly they knock! Pray you, come in:
lying; the longer kept, the less worth: off with 't
The instruments of darkness tell us truths,
Commend me to my loving countrymen,--
Or pricket sore, or else sorel; the people fall a-hooting.
That what we did was mildly as we might,
Enter PAGE, SHALLOW, and SLENDER
'Tis in few words, but spacious in effect;
To make her heavenly comforts of despair,
And make, no doubt, us happy by his reign.
For being not mad but sensible of grief,
Or should have spoke ere this. Look down, you god,
What dogs are these! Where is the rascal cook?
That if your highness should intend to sleep
And will revolt from me to succor him.
When evil deeds have their permissive pass
But it becomes me well enough, does't not?
With politic grave counsel; then the king
find when he comes home. But what talk I of this?
The drum your honour hears marcheth from Warwick.
This is the last: so we will home to Rome,
would be argument for a week, laughter for a month
What sayest thou to a hare, or the melancholy of
Weigh what convenience both of time and means
Thou bring'st good news; I am called to be made free.
Disdaining duty that to us belongs.
Julia I lose and Valentine I lose:
My mistress and her sister stays for you.
And, gazing in mine eyes, feeling my pulse,
Merry or sad shall't be?
press-money. That fellow handles his bow like a
To your protection I commend me, gods.
Where bloody murder or detested rape
Shall be wiped out in the next parliament
little blood they do, I'll be a curer of madmen.
If we do meet again, we'll smile indeed;
sir, was Yorick's skull, the king's jester.
may creep in here; and throw foul linen upon him, as
[Aside to CLARENCE] God forbid that! for he'll
Worth seizure do we seize into our hands,
Exit
though grey
O Iago, the pity of it, Iago!
Therefore no no, for I resign to thee.
When it is paid according to the tenor.
them and a great cause, they should be esteemed
Lucilius' Servant	Ay, and I think
some of all professions that go the primrose
I dare not call them fools; but this I think,
Should be in them to give.
You go about to torture me in vain.
And call'd mine Percy, his Plantagenet!
That have of late so huddled on his back,
man; prove it.
Whate'er Lord Harry Percy then had said
It is: and yours too, Isidore?
He or she, cuckold or cuckold-maker,
As firmly as yourself were still in place:
And find no harbour in a royal heart.
But that belike Iago in the interim
my troth, there's one meaning well suited.
Into baboon and monkey.
Our scouts have found the adventure very easy:
He faints! My lord, my lord!
Would the nobility lay aside their ruth,
Now will not I deliver his letter: for the behavior
What will ensue hereof, there's none can tell;
too little for pomp to enter: some that humble
But that in all my life, when I was a youth.
ACT I
Not dallying with a brace of courtezans,
Exit CICERO
made, a poor unworthy brother of yours, with idleness.
O, fear me not.
Strong reasons make strong actions: let us go:
Madam, although I speak it in your presence,
Have found him guilty of high treason. Much
Exit Clown
It is meat and drink to me to see a clown: by my
Except you mean with obstinate repulse
If this inducement force her not to love,
Enter the KING
But if the prince do live, let us salute him,
Now welcome more, and ten times more beloved,
not forward, doth it?
That age, ache, penury and imprisonment
Enough, my lord.
For it must seem their guilt.
Unpleasing to a married ear!
I must go look my twigs: he shall be caught.
Our Britain seems as of it, but not in 't;
Or slunk not Saturnine, as Tarquin erst,
We will haste us.
You shall have pay and every thing you wish.
My drown'd queen's name, as in the rest you said
There is no lady of more softer bowels,
He never will come again.
motions: if it be my luck, so; if not, happy man be
Signior Leonato, let the friar advise you:
treacherous,
Fe, fe, fe, fe! ma foi, il fait fort chaud. Je
Be satisfied, dear God, with our true blood,
say doubt; det, when he should pronounce debt,--d,
be one! Hush! here come the lords of Tyre.
Confusion's near; I cannot speak. You, tribunes
Your unknown sovereignty!
Yea, bloody cloth, I'll keep thee, for I wish'd
Now must I to the monument alone;
And then I'll speak a little.
Yes, indeed: thou wouldst make a good fool.
And hold their level with thy princely heart?
If she be very well, what does she ail, that she's
It to be stirr'd; but oft have hinder'd, oft,
Else what a mockery should it be to swear!
That you divest yourself, and lay apart
him a coward. And, I pray thee now, tell me for
Write thou good niece; and here display, at last,
But well, when I discourse of love and peace?
That I am Viola: which to confirm,
To hear the solemn curfew; by whose aid,
[To ROBIN]  Hold, sirrah, bear you these letters tightly;
holily in their beds.
So, so, there!
And cursed Dionyza hath
as she is and without any danger.
For gay apparel 'gainst the triumph day.
If I refuse to wed Demetrius.
A certain stuff, which, being ta'en, would cease
Upon supposed fairness, often known
Men at some time are masters of their fates:
Lest you shall chance to whip your information
knowest my old ward; here I lay and thus I bore my
Of wisdom, gravity, profound conceit,
And yet be seen to bear a woman's face?
Ah, ha! does she so?
To outface me with leaping in her grave?
And men ne'er spend their fury on a child.
Against to-morrow: my heart is wondrous light,
And what makes robbers bold but too much lenity?
Away with her; go, bear her hence perforce.
My name is Caius Marcius, who hath done
Mark'd for the gallows, lay your weapons down;
It is a thing most precious. But for her,
thou'lt catch cold shortly: there, take my coxcomb:
And we in negligent danger. Cheer your heart;
Players in your housewifery, and housewives' in your beds.
report you.
To bring a slovenly unhandsome corse
No, in truth.
Prefix'd by Angelo: see this be done,
We will greet the time.
First, noble friend,
Or breed itself so out of circumstance,
To-morrow in the battle think on me,
Put up your swords.
To make my end too sudden: learn, good soul,
Below their cobbled shoes. They say there's
We, at the height, are ready to decline.
My careless father fondly gave away'?
congealed ice; that I know to be true: and he is a
And left us to the rage of France his sword.
Too terrible for the ear: the times have been,
Here is my journey's end, here is my butt,
to exasperate you, to awake your dormouse valour, to
No, no, the bell: 'tis time that I were gone:
Is hack'd down, and his summer leaves all faded,
I perceive, sir, by the general's looks, we shall be
There's a trim rabble let in: are all these
marry, thus, my lord: my dear lord and most esteemed
Come, come, good wine is a good familiar creature,
No visor does become black villany
Here, if it like your honour.
ANTIPHOLUS
That good Duke Humphrey traitorously is murder'd
tongues: therefore follow me, and I direct you how
To any lady that subdues a lord.
[To the Soothsayer]  The ides of March are come.
Have got by the late voyage is but merely
As often as I guess'd.
Madam, your mother craves a word with you.
blunt as, God help, I would desire they were; but,
I turn my glass and give my scene such growing
When churchyards yawn and hell itself breathes out
thee; else thou diest in thine unthankfulness, and
I can no longer hold me patient.
been cozened and beaten too. If it should come to
I cannot hate thee worser than I do,
Ay, boy, ready.
But certainly a maid.
Exit MESSALA
The world affords no law to make thee rich;
marvel how the fishes live in the sea.
The devil a puritan that he is, or any thing
Thy death, which is no more. Thou art not thyself;
Farewell, my blood; which if to-day thou shed,
Malvolio, Malvolio, thy wits the heavens restore!
Your troops of horsemen with his bands of foot;
How shall I understand you?
Well have you argued, sir; and, for your pains,
When I am in my coach, which stays for us
And Phibbus' car
shall be with her between ten and eleven; for at
Rise Richard, like a true Plantagenet,
Away, inhuman dog! unhallow'd slave!
As you do love, fill to your mistress' lips,--
If thou be'st yet a fresh uncropped flower,
The rest aloof are the Dardanian wives,
Make them be strong and ready for this hint,
Nor now I had not, but that I am bound
Be perdurably fined? O Isabel!
he were here, I would cudgel him like a dog, if he
Nay, then, God be wi' you, an you talk in blank verse.
Delighted them in any other form;
Which he so sets at nought.
If thou hast slain Lysander in his sleep,
She wish'd me to make known; but our great court
Which you knew great, and to the hazard
You have forgot the will I told you of.
He hath ribbons of an the colours i' the rainbow;
And makest them kiss! that speak'st with
base fear, offer to betray you and deliver all the
On the fair daughter of rich Capulet:
Cannot be heard so high. I'll look no more;
He is complete in feature and in mind
'Fore your queen died, she was more worth such gazes
And then, sir, would he gripe and wring my hand,
THE FORTUNATE-UNHAPPY.'
the world: here comes the man you mean.
How little is the cost I have bestow'd
Now I have stain'd the childhood of our joy
She tells me here, she'd wed the stranger knight,
Dearer than Plutus' mine, richer than gold:
This is the first truth that e'er thine own tongue
You rogue, here's lime in this sack too: there is
Sent from your brother, Marquess Montague:
For Valentine myself, for Julia Silvia.
I wrote to you
Ay me, I can no more! die, Margaret!
And not be cheque'd.
For when my outward action doth demonstrate
Ay, to devour him; as the hungry plebeians would the
Come, go with me: I will go seek the king.
I hope the briefness of your answer made
and the garland too; for the garland he might have
Exeunt some Attendants
Thus Rosalind of many parts
'Tis sweet at first to acquire,--after this process,
True hope is swift, and flies with swallow's wings:
But no more sights!--Where are these gentlemen?
Doth dogged war bristle his angry crest
Know of your love?
Methought a serpent eat my heart away,
With my confineless harms.
He therefore sends you, meeter for your spirit,
Or else dries up; to be discarded thence!
his destiny with him.
Of some such thing?
Who, then, dares to be half so kind again?
Assemble all the poor men of your sort;
grows melancholy?
And not provoked by any suitor else;
Make thee the father of their idle dreams
How shall I fashion me to wear a cloak?
No.
Tell me how it came this night
Shall take upon 's what else remains to do,
should I anatomize him to thee as he is, I must
Will it consume me? let me see it, then.
My Oberon! what visions have I seen!
tragedians; to belie him, I will not, and more of
Whereat a villain's not a welcome guest.
Thou bloodless remnant of that royal blood!
You came in arms to spill mine enemies' blood,
name of Hero: she leans me out at her mistress'
go not together: she's a good sign, but I have seen
But wherefore do I tell these news to thee?
That suffer in exposure, let us meet,
Our innocent self: this I made good to you
Enter a Gardener, and two Servants
Enter ROMEO
Thou makest me merry; I am full of pleasure:
Only to show his pomp as well in France
As a wren's eye, fear'd gods, a part of it!
He has betray'd your business, and given up,
Shalt waft them over with our royal fleet.
You would all this time have proved there is no
Men prize the thing ungain'd more than it is:
And show the heavens more just.
How now, my pretty knave! how dost thou?
worthier than a village, so is the forehead of a
Come, grin on me, and I will think thou smilest
My wife kill'd too?
Upon entreaty have a present aims;
starve: I will fetch my gold and have our two
O, treachery! Fly, good Fleance, fly, fly, fly!
What appetite you have.
To use between your strangeness and his pride,
Pray you, without any more virginal fencing, will
And I had that which any inferior might
In the mean time, against thou shalt awake,
Kills for faults of his own liking!
I like him well.
for when lenity and cruelty play for a kingdom, the
And many worthy and chaste dames even thus,
I'll tell him what you say, my lord.
If you have any justice, any pity;
[Within]  Cry, Trojans!
And then she's yours.
If charnel-houses and our graves must send
In truth, fair Montague, I am too fond,
Nay, come, sit down; then on.
By me entreats, great lord, thou wouldst vouchsafe
Banquo and Donalbain! Malcolm! awake!
some laudable attempt either of valour or policy.
That after hours with sorrow chide us not!
Exit
Brother, though I be youngest, give me leave.
Smiled at their lack of skill, but found
For living idly here in pomp and ease,
Pointing to KING LEAR
wooing of a peascod instead of her, from whom I took
Exit
the hobby-horse is forgot.'
Ay, gracious sovereign; they are so link'd in
There shall the pairs of faithful lovers be
You make my bonds still greater.
[Aside]  Eat it up all, Hortensio, if thou lovest me.
To CYMBELINE
fantastical; the wedding, mannerly-modest, as a
Which shallow laughing hearers give to fools:
But in that crystal scales let there be weigh'd
Get you gone.
But now the Duke of Buckingham and I
Till thou applaud the deed. Come, seeling night,
Was once thought honest: you have loved him well.
She may, I think, bestow't on any man.
Not an inch further. But hark you, Kate:
face me out of my wits.
Were you the clerk that is to make me cuckold?
There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
To have my pardon, trim it handsomely.
Is Decius Brutus and Trebonius there?
Sweet draught: 'sweet' quoth 'a! sweet sink,
Is wicked meaning in a lawful deed
This day had plotted, in the council-house
He did, my gracious lord, begin that place;
Which this man's life did owe you, you'll rejoice
She is the hopeful lady of my earth:
Why, yet there want not many that do fear
Black, forsooth: coal-black as jet.
Spirits to enforce, art to enchant,
You cannot guess wherefore the Welshman comes.
That dotes on Cassio; as 'tis the strumpet's plague
And him he play'd it for, he needs will be
To bait fish withal: if it will feed nothing else,
Pray you now, buy it.
Ay, on mine honour.
Wherefore shall I be content-a?
Carry his water to the wise woman.
hope, sir, if you thrive, you'll remember from
There's few or none do know me: if they did,
And pale destruction meets thee in the face.
Take me this work out.
Hie thee to hell for shame, and leave the world,
'Tis he and Cloten: malice and lucre in them
To those which would not know them, and yet must
How much I have disabled mine estate,
Now, by this maiden blossom in my hand,
To crown himself king and suppress the prince.
Her silver visage in the watery glass,
What, have I choked you with an argosy?
[Within]  Nay, good my lord,--
An oath that I have sworn. I will not break it:
lord, if you will give me leave, I will tread this
Such as move men; beside, she hath prosperous art
You, sirrah, that knew me for a fool, a coward,
More than light airs and recollected terms
to him. But I can tell you one thing, my lord, and
Sound, trumpets, alarum to the combatants!
Is straightway calm'd and boarded with a pirate:
Go to, sir: tell me, do you know Madam Silvia?
Exeunt
What a strange case was that! now, before the gods,
An if your highness knew my heart, you were.
thirty miles to ride yet ere dinner time.
You are not Pinch's patient, are you, sir?
the poop, but 'tis in the nose of thee; thou art the
Thus, after greeting, speaks the King of France
In that be made more bitter. Fear o'ershades me:
Far from his succor, from the king, from all
Let it be virtuous to be obstinate.
A hall, a hall! give room! and foot it, girls.
Your words have took such pains as if they labour'd
As who should say 'When I am dead and gone,
By gar, 'tis no the fashion of France; it is not
The profit of the state. For your great graces
hanging, or of some death more long in
To sup with me to-morrow night. Away!
Whom have I injured, that ye seek my death?
Then not in Britain must you bide.
And pardon, father, for I knew not thee!
Feasts are too proud to give thanks to the gods.
Hath hurt me more than had he killed me dead:
varied, like a scholar at the least: but, sir, I
Incenses them to send destruction.
My gracious lord,
The slave of nature and the son of hell!
Ordained is to raise this tedious siege
kills a sparrow flying.
Once more let me behold it: is it that
Oft have I heard that grief softens the mind,
Exeunt
Three glorious suns, each one a perfect sun;
Then say at once if I maintain'd the truth;
No jewel is like Rosalind.
am not such a sickly creature, I give heaven praise.
Our wish, which side should win: for either thou
I spurn thee like a cur out of my way.
No, in truth, sir, he should not. 'Deceiving me'
In what place of the field doth Calchas keep?
Exit
Sith 'twas my fault to give the people scope,
The earth hath bubbles, as the water has,
Who being accused a crafty murderer,
Nay, come, I pray you, sir, give me the chain:
Fresh as a bridegroom; and his chin new reap'd
What news, my lord?
Here let them end it; and God defend the right!
ruffians bald;
The foot above the head.
Yet doth this accident and flood of fortune
Gives the ring
And bear possession of our person here,
Re-enter OPHELIA
It is not for your health thus to commit
the web and the pin, squints the eye, and makes the
Yet never know how that desert should be.
Exeunt
You do mistake your business; my brother never
My uses cry to me, I must serve my turn
But where he meant to ruin, pitiful:
Can we set eye on; but in all safe reason
Boldly 'not guilty;' the imposition clear'd
Follow, and do me service.
From some forefather grief; mine is not so,
What, prithee?
To-day my Lord of Amiens and myself
And that unhappy king, my master, whom
O heavenly Julia!
In stiff unwieldy arms against thy crown:
Nor I, my lord.
Save that riotous youth, with dangerous sense,
him here? Did he ask for me? Where remains he?
But do you hear, sir? have you married my daughter
No, master; the hobby-horse is but a colt, and your
You may as well forbid the mountain pines
And threat me I shall never come to bliss
Did bear him like a noble gentleman.
Yet it shall come from me to do thee good.
And so swear I, my lord
Which, as I think, you know not. Here is a letter
Exeunt Gaolers
You are as welcome, worthy sir, as I
Spoke he of me?
A shallow plash to plunge him in the deep
Great Coeur-de-lion's heart was buried,
Upon the left hand of the even field.
Prithee now, say you will, and go about it.
For he is but a bastard to the time
O Jesu, he doth it as like one of these harlotry
This is no witness for Lord Angelo.
May be it is the period of your duty:
And hellish obstinacy tie thy tongue,
The door is open, sir; there lies your way;
If it please you: yet Count Claudio may hear; for
Stirr'd up by Dorset, Buckingham, and Ely,
knew it was Crab, and goes me to the fellow that
Peace, you were best.
But think you, lords, that Clifford fled with them?
and hit that woman; who cried out 'Clubs!' when I
I'll play this bout first; set it by awhile. Come.
O blood-besotted Neapolitan,
I'll send him certain word of my success.
Just as my master had direction:
Write in the dust this sentence with thy blood,
presence must be the whip of the other.
O, that's an honest fellow. Do not doubt, Cassio,
Forthlight the tilter, and brave Master Shooty the
SCENE IV. Another part of the field.
Young lad, come forth; I have to say with you.
To him will I : out of these convertites
My lord!
Be sent for, to return from France with speed;
In blood of those that had encounter'd him:
Some slain before; some dying; some their friends
In, fellow, there, into the hovel: keep thee warm.
That nature, being sick of man's unkindness,
Enter KATHARINA and BIANCA
To your own person: nay, when I have a suit
The Briton reveller.
Ah, soldier!
Sword, pike, knife, gun, or need of any engine,
Exeunt
We thank you all for the great favour done,
That shall be swallow'd in this controversy.
The reason moved these warlike lords to this
physic your rankness, and yet give no thousand
Which she hath praised him with above compare
I deny your major: if you will deny the sheriff,
Nor thrust your head into the public street
Whom I with all the office of my heart
And all the trouble thou hast turn'd me to?
And yet to be afeard of my deserving
Here he ascendeth his throne
Had sent to me first, but for my mind's sake;
First, the gods bless you for your tidings; next,
Come, come, peace.
My father and my grandfather were kings,
With manacles thorough our streets, or else
Apollo, Pallas, Jove, or Mercury,
Why did you so cry out, sirs, in your sleep?
The name thou owest not; and hast put thyself
And now, forsooth, takes on him to reform
To be revenged on him that loveth you.
Her stature to an inch; as wand-like straight;
Than what I know, yet shall the oracle
That see I by our faces; we are fellows still,
I should be false persuaded I had daughters.
More longing, wavering, sooner lost and worn,
I will no further offend you than becomes me for my good.
O sun, thy uprise shall I see no more:
You are a spirit, I know: when did you die?
I had rather hear you chide than this man woo.
No, lad; teach me.
What is 't you say? the life?
Is there no exorcist
very notes of admiration: they seemed almost, with
My queen and son are gone to France for aid;
Shall the contents discover, something rare
Thy biddings have been done; and every hour,
Unless to dub thee with the name of traitor.
Put this in any liquid thing you will,
'Liberty, freedom, and enfranchisement!'
The main blaze of it is past, but a small thing
That this same paper brings you.
maggots: your fat king and your lean beggar is but
If you deny to dance, let's hold more chat.
To keep the oath that we administer:
Exeunt
Or seek for rule, supremacy and sway,
For the love of God, a surgeon! Send one presently
What, can the devil speak true?
Look, and thou shalt see.
Thunder and lightning. Enter ARIEL, like a  harpy; claps his wings upon the table; and, with a quaint device, the banquet vanishes
Is hush'd within the hollow mine of earth,
SCENE IV. GLOUCESTER's garden.
Since mine own doors refuse to entertain me,
What are your pleasures with me, reverend lords?
Enter HOLOFERNES, for Judas; and MOTH, for Hercules
Till he hath pass'd necessity.
To see the making of her carcanet,
To Pepin or Clotharius, they keep state so.
make my eyes look red, that it may be thought I have
Set but thy foot
Of hell would not in reputation change:
And ill beseeming any common man,
I would not care, I then would be content,
Then send for one presently.
That his blood flows, or that his appetite
And strong encounter of my amorous tale:
Exeunt CARDINAL and HASTINGS
And when I give occasion of offence,
I have made my way through more impediments
service: it was a disaster of war that Caesar
They have here propertied me; keep me in darkness,
And, for our coffers, with too great a court
You may take my word, my lord; I know, no man
Nay, if I turn mine eyes upon myself,
What, were you banish'd thence?
Exeunt
or not I the detector!
Men are to mell with, boys are not to kiss:
But now two mirrors of his princely semblance
Thy letters have transported me beyond
Hath much deform'd us, fashioning our humours
I came before you here a man prepared
Well, I'll not say what I intend for thee:
O villainous! I have looked upon the world for four
Why, then, take no note of him, but let him go; and
Set down by the poll?
That, indeed, Sir John, is my business.
Enter DUKE ORSINO, VIOLA, CURIO, and Lords
To temper poisons for her, still pretending
Come hither, Leonato. What was it you told me of
Inhabits here: some heavenly power guide us
I am your better, traitors as ye are:
Good Peter, to hide her face; for her fan's the
And the most merciless that e'er was heard of!
I will not, uncle: I have forgot my father;
Exeunt
Promotion follows. If I could find example
The other, that he do record a gift,
The mansion where!--'twas at a feast,--O, would
And, good lieutenant, I think you think I love you.
Long die thy happy days before thy death;
I am a king, and privileged to speak.
Unless your thoughts went on my way.
Defective in their natures, grow to wildness,
Or, if you'ld ask, remember this before:
Exit
He of Winchester
[Kneeling]  No man shed tears for noble Mutius;
Exit
Thou art Dromio, thou art my man, thou art thyself.
His majesty hath straitly given in charge
At which appear'd against him his surveyor;
Thus yields the cedar to the axe's edge,
been grievously peaten as an old 'oman: methinks
To seek a living in our territory.
Seyton, send out. Doctor, the thanes fly from me.
Than you should such dishonour undergo,
I would you knew Ford, sir, that you might avoid him
He knew me as a wife. As this is true,
knight that you brought in one night here to be her wooer.
blackberries? a question not to be asked. Shall
God forbid! Where's this girl? What, Juliet!
If it conceived a male child by me, should
Why, then they are not dead:
O, peace! Contemplation makes a rare turkey-cock
Newts and blind-worms, do no wrong,
But be of comfort.
I beseech your honour, one piece for me.
All that you speak shows fair.
Your angry choler on your enemies.
A merriment than a vice.
A hair-brain'd Hotspur, govern'd by a spleen:
Deformed, unfinish'd, sent before my time
'Tis meet that lucky ruler be employ'd;
She is an heir of Falconbridge.
scale of reason to poise another of sensuality, the
Things have fall'n out, sir, so unluckily,
Enter a Soldier of CAESAR's
Long continuance, and increasing,
Of such contents as you will wonder at;
yet our horse not packed. What, ostler!
And such a twain can do't, in which I bind,
How lesser enmities may give way to greater.
I would thou hadst been son to some man else:
But farewell it, for I will use no art.
world! One that is well-nigh worn to pieces with
Name it, fair cousin.
You're great in fortune.
he vent Trinculos?
my pack will hold.
Because I am the store-house and the shop
And so farewell, till we shall meet again.
Nay, I know not.
With drunken spilth of wine, when every room
Defend the justice of my cause with arms,
And I, her husband, contradict your bans.
Wings and no eyes figure unheedy haste:
He cannot be heard of. Out of doubt he is
Take, therefore, shipping; post, my lord, to France;
Protector, see to't well, protect yourself.
The charges of the action. We have made peace
If you hear a child cry in the night, you must call
Pleaseth you walk with me down to his house,
Standing before the sun of Bolingbroke,
Re-enter BRUTUS and SICINIUS, with the rabble
And meet the time as it seeks us. We fear not
A prating boy, that begg'd it as a fee:
But no more deep will I endart mine eye
Shall shine at full upon them. Some attend him.
I'll venture one have-at-him.
friend; and I fear not mine own shame so much as his
Why should I not, had I the heart to do it,
Peace shall go sleep with Turks and infidels,
Do you know me, my lord?
All's not offence that indiscretion finds
O Caesar,
Sennet. Enter KING RICHARD III, in pomp, crowned; BUCKINGHAM, CATESBY, a page, and others
And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
That's on some shallow story of deep love:
I read as much as from the rattling tongue
what verse for it? what instance for it? Let me see:
If he see aught in you that makes him like,
And therefore tell her I return great thanks,
I moralize two meanings in one word.
strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of
Exeunt
Methought you said you neither lend nor borrow
And speaking it, he wistly look'd on me,
I crave your honour's pardon.
scarce to be worth talking of: therefore draw, for
And, as I think, they have already order
His practises to light?
That sings heaven's praise with such an earthly tongue.
Derive some pain from you: plague all;
Of this poor infant, this fresh-new sea-farer,
To set him free from his captivity.
Pardon me, madam,
[Within]  What ho, my liege! for God's sake,
O, coward that I am, to live so long,
majesty's name, apprehend him: he's a friend of the
No, no; by God's good grace his son shall reign.
I did, my lord.
Will play the cook and servant; 'tis our match:
Until it wither with me to my grave
than my noble and natural person together with the
Bear them from hence. Our present business
I give you welcome with a powerless hand,
Hear no more of you. This the Dauphin speaks.
I did obey, and sent my peasant home
What's he that hath so much thy place mistook
Soft!
O my good lord! Sweet Isabel, take my part;
Make war with him that climb'd unto their nest,
Re-enter Attendant, with a glass
That there's no hoped-for mercy with the brothers
O, good madam, there can be none yet.
To-morrow, or next day, they will be here.
That no man enter till my tale be done.
I hate not you for her proud arrogance.
speak in your own behalf; and thus far I confirm
To fill King Edward's fame with prisoner kings
Exeunt LADY CAPULET and Nurse
That I must bear a part.
Saw? who?
And dallies with the wind and scorns the sun.
I could match this beginning with an old tale.
Beat a Venetian and traduced the state,
What, pray you, became of Antigonus, that carried
Well, go to, I will;
Sir, he doth in some sort confess it.
Or what you will command me will I do,
And straight am nothing: but whate'er I be,
Since foes have scope to beat both thee and me.
Who calls?
My lord, I love you;
Hang thou there upon the tomb,
Yea, if he said my ring was copper.
Sweet prince, why speak not you?
In best appointment all our regiments.
O, be persuaded! do not count it holy
tailor made thee.
so fair and excellent ladies any thing. But let
Follow me; thou shalt serve me: if I like thee no
Unclasp'd my practise, quit his fortunes here,
Very well met, and well come.
Where money is, and I no question make
Why, 'tis well known that, whiles I was
O ruin'd piece of nature! This great world
Answer his emptiness! Caesar, thou hast subdued
Two Cliffords, as the father and the son,
And shakes his threatening sword
So Suffolk had thy heavenly company:
And all the peers and nobles of the realm
Naughty lady,
latter end and she must be blind too.
To DUMAIN
The day is broke; be wary, look about.
To the laundress, forsooth.
God save the king! God save the king!
And the buildings of my fancy: only
And in our sight they three were taken up
I'll dive into the burning lake below,
O barbarous, beastly villains, like thyself!
Their backward course, bearing with frank appearance
Enter MENENIUS
Like the poor cat i' the adage?
Two of her brothers were condemn'd to death,
And hither make, as great ambassadors
Out of one side her happy minion,
Stabbing him
Dishonourable boy!
And in sad cypress let me be laid;
I'll tell thee:
Than that which is to approach.
TIMON comes from his cave
Before I saw you; and the world's large tongue
Hath almost overta'en him in his growth.
Man-enter'd thus, he waxed like a sea,
out, they will spit; and for lovers lacking--God
How come these staggers on me?
Here to make good the boisterous late appeal,
To give the judgment.
SCENE III. A street.
I mean, I walked upon: it is y-cleped thy park. Then
Not your demand; it values not your asking:
Think you, but that I know our state secure,
A vision of the Island, one dear son
And which the spirit? who deciphers them?
That shall fly with them: for many a thousand widows
'Tis like a coffin, sir.
No more of that; I have noted it well. Go you, and
the lion and the spots of thy kindred were jurors on
Have robb'd my strong-knit sinews of their strength,
Strikes him down
shoulder-bone; how he cried to me for help and said
Ah, Juliet, I already know thy grief;
Your royal father 's murder'd.
My lord, prince Pericles is fled.
ACT III
My brother hath done well.
Exeunt the three Citizens
It is the east, and Juliet is the sun.
Good night to your redress! Is the duke gone?
Now God in heaven bless thee! Hark you, sir.
What did the Russian whisper in your ear?
The time of night when Troy was set on fire;
After his brother: and importuned me
O mischief strangely thwarting!
Then with the losers let it sympathize,
Exeunt JESSICA and LORENZO
What countryman, I pray?
The traitorous Warwick with the men of Bury
It is decreed Hector the great must die.
Will I not think of home, but follow arms.
Some of us would lie low.
to Brutus', to Cassius'; burn all: some to Decius'
the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
And hang himself. I pray you, do my greeting.
Dismay'd not this
Why dost thou use me thus? I know thee not.
Hag-seed, hence!
myself, fidelicet myself; and the three party is,
My lord, I do beseech you, pardon me;
no sooner achieved, but we'll set upon them.
Sought to be king o'er her.
Shall be to you, as us, like glorious.
Valentine!
Master Froth here, this very man, having eaten the
Sir, would she give you so much of her lips
Exeunt
Since doubling things go ill often hurts more
And what's a fever but a fit of madness?
I come about my brother.
I have stood by, my lord, and I have heard
I know not where he lodges, and for me to devise a
O vain fool!
Without a monument!--bring thee all this;
Let not our babbling dreams affright our souls:
Time hath not yet so dried this blood of mine,
The dangers of the time. You swore to us,
He's with the king your father.
Thrust Talbot with a spear into the back,
Take him, and use him well, he's worthy of it.
I do but keep the peace: put up thy sword,
What means this scorn, thou most untoward knave?
In any breast of strong authority,
ANTIPHOLUS
I shall forestall thee, Lord Ulysses, thou!
Costard the swain and he shall be our sport;
Thou takest
Is it your will Claudio shall die tomorrow?
At Beaufort's pride, at Somerset's ambition,
Of these most brisk and giddy-paced times:
Of old I know them; rather with their teeth
yet, when they stoop, they stoop with the like
I did in time collect myself and thought
Even now, sir; on a moderate pace I have since
Wherein you range under this subtle king;
O that I had him,
empty a heart: but the saying is true 'The empty
It shall go hard if Cambio go without her.
commander;
And thence she cannot be convey'd away.
Well, he may chance to do some good on her:
March'd through the city to the palace gates.
And shall forget the office of our hand,
man's sworn spouse; set not thy sweet heart on proud
Lo, at their births good stars were opposite.
Exeunt
Is troth-plight to your daughter. Good Paulina,
That done, dissever your united strengths,
or we run ourselves aground: bestir, bestir.
Led by the Dauphin.
You should be satisfied.
You knew of his departure, as you know
Enter THALIARD
Exeunt
To be afraid to tell graybeards the truth?
As loud, and to as many tunes: hats, cloaks--
Extended Asia from Euphrates;
'They have press'd a power, but it is not known
Hautboys sound. The Company sit down at table
Enter a Messenger
Becoming well thy fact: what canst thou say
Sweet father, cease your tears; for, at your grief,
they could not read, thou hast hanged them; when,
Should chance--
The head of a bodkin.
She may help you to many fair preferments,
I'll stand to-day for thee and me and Troy.
Your friends are up, and buckle on their armour.
How he describes himself!
I think you are happy in this second match,
Enter Old Lady, LOVELL following
Good troth, you do me wrong, good sooth, you do,
Or I would see his heart out, ere the priest
For you in my respect are all the world:
Spoke scantly of me: when perforce he could not
I do not, till you practise them on me.
Let moulten coin be thy damnation,
which gentlemen have.
Why, look you, I am whipp'd and scourged with rods,
humour as well as waiting in the court, I can tell
The devil take thee, coward!
There's an Italian come; and, 'tis thought, one of
Was Ajax, call'd so from his grandfather.
And threaten present blusters. In my conscience,
Than where castles mounted stand.'
Of that most delicate lodging: by my life,
Gentlemen all,--alas, what shall I say?
And let us once again assail your ears,
Who, in my mood, I stabb'd unto the heart.
So methinks:
I say you are not.
Show me, my women, like a queen: go fetch
Can truly say he gives, if he receives:
The death I gave him. So, again, good night.
I know not where I am, nor what I do;
Lay sleeping on his back: about his neck
Is fully out.
Where, being but young, I framed to the harp
Come, Proteus; 'tis your penance but to hear
To sport would be as tedious as to work;
or unsafe circumstance--What can be said? Nothing
Mayor, farewell: thou dost but what thou mayst.
Recover breath; tell us how near is danger,
In going back to school in Wittenberg,
When I do stare, see how the subject quakes.
God's mother deigned to appear to me
And writ as little beard.
Why, this that I speak of.
is wise:' 'Certain,' said she, 'a wise gentleman.'
My wife's a hobby-horse, deserves a name
And not be all day neither.
Now go to the door, and stay there till we call.
countermines: by Cheshu, I think a' will plough up
This is the fool that lent out money gratis:
your honour,
Come come, open the matter in brief: what said she?
Shut up your doors, my lord; 'tis a wild night:
Our fertile France, put up her lovely visage?
That of thy death and business I can tell.
Think that thy babes were fairer than they were,
The sea enraged is not half so deaf,
Then every soldier kill his prisoners:
You are a great deal abused in too bold a
Therefore, good mother,--I must can you so--
Show nothing but confusion, eyed awry
No, I thank you, forsooth, heartily; I am very well.
Must to Corioli back: send us to Rome
The time is out of joint: O cursed spite,
Like the sequel, I. Signior Costard, adieu.
To question of his apprehension.
Let him come near.
'Tis true; for those that she makes fair she scarce
of pebbles, that I was fain to draw mine honour in,
Is there none here to give the woman?
He took my father grossly, full of bread;
And I'll believe thee.
sleeves? do other servants so? Thou wert best set
horse's health, a boy's love, or a whore's oath.
In deep of night to walk by this Herne's oak:
Vex not his prescience; be attentive.
He thus should steal upon us.
I fear he will.
yet he talked wisely, and in the street too.
they'll stick where they are thrown.
By what thou swear'st against the thing thou swear'st,
And yet a place of high respect with me,--
Alas, my lord, I have but kill'd a fly.
Even for the service that long since I did thee,
I thank you, sir: that's all.
Ay, say you so? the gates shall then be open'd.
to-night, are those stars or suns upon it?
How goes it with my brave Mark Antony?
I wis it is not half way to her heart;
You are looked for and called for, asked for and
We were awaked; straightway, at liberty;
Why dost thou wrong her that did ne'er wrong thee?
with pistols, that none shall issue out; otherwise
Ay, but not frighted me; therefore I'll sleep again.
SCENE I. Venice. A street.
The dearest friend to me, the kindest man,
'Twill bring you gain, or perish on the seas.
it in the behalf of his friend: and I'll swear to
This is the end of the charge:--you, constable, are
A lion-fell, nor else no lion's dam;
Thersites is a fool to serve such a fool, and
That thou adorest and hast in reverence,
Marry, your manhood now--
Wouldst thou not be glad to have the niggardly
Can from his mother win the Duke of York,
Horns whelk'd and waved like the enridged sea:
I must needs wake you; Lady! lady! lady!
Romeo shall thank thee, daughter, for us both.
My lord, in heart; and let the health go round.
Why, say, fair queen, whence springs this deep despair?
That holds in chase mine honour up and down?
And issue forth and bid them battle straight.
Even here undone!
They have said their prayers, and they stay for death.
Of what I was i' the morning: but next day
clay-brained guts, thou knotty-pated fool, thou
like it very well; but in respect that it is
Shall be a wall sufficient to defend
With all my heart; and, when you come ashore,
Why ever wast thou lovely in my eyes?
wings to follow it! Come, and be true.
I cannot tell.
Companions to our person and will fit you
acquainted with goldsmiths' wives, and conned them
His daughters seek his death: ah, that good Kent!
Three, my most gracious lord.
Chief master-gunner am I of this town;
the dog?' 'Ay, marry, do I,' quoth he. 'You do him
though they be not to be talked on, yet they are
None could be so abused in sight as he.
Uproar the universal peace, confound
Humphrey of Gloucester, thou shalt well perceive
What, is he fled? Go some, and follow him;
That's he that was Othello: here I am.
By good Saint Alban; who said, 'Simpcox, come,
a fool's paradise, as they say, it were a very gross
Alack, in me what strange effect
nayword, and make him a common recreation, do not
'Tis their fresh supplies.
For nothing but his majesty's approach.
Received that sum, yet there remains unpaid
O, make a league with me, till I have pleased
A calf, fair lady!
To say what good respect I have of thee.
We are their parents and original.
You justicers, that these our nether crimes
And yet, to satisfy this good old man,
Thy mistress' marks? what mistress, slave, hast thou?
For sufferance is the badge of all our tribe.
Now, masters, draw.
Both who he is and why he cometh hither
I see my reputation is at stake
A meaner woman was delivered
He is well paid that is well satisfied;
Exit CLAUDIO
And time it is, when raging war is done,
O, he's a limb that has but a disease;
The treasury of everlasting joy.
Doth play the trumpet to his purposes,
Can make seem pleasing to her tender years?
To conquer France, his true inheritance?
Lo, in these windows that let forth thy life,
What, would you make me mad? Am not I Christopher
Let's see, let's see.
Re-enter LUCIUS
one.
So are they all, all honourable men--
leave these rogues, I am the veriest varlet that
Why all these fires, why all these gliding ghosts,
Signior Bassanio!
All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
The Earl of Warwick and the duke enforced me.
Then patiently hear my impatience.
Built up, this city, for his chiefest seat:
Re-enter MARIANA
Confederate season, else no creature seeing;
New come from Padua.
And Jove forbid there should be done amongst us
Collars of SS.
Take up those cords: poor ropes, you are beguiled,
prave passages; marry, th' athversary was have
No more than my residing here at Rome
'twill serve.
My Lord of York, try what your fortune is.
And with some other business put the king
Come, swear to that; kiss the book: I will furnish
Bid him repair to me, and bring with him
By heaven, I come in perfect love to him;
As far as Belmont.
of Leda. O omnipotent Love! how near the god drew
Exeunt PETRUCHIO, KATHARINA, and GRUMIO
Enter Soldier
All this we swear.
And to speak troth, I have forgot our way:
My derivation was from ancestors
Thereof to be inform'd, imprison't not
For Clarence is well-spoken, and perhaps
mouth, and it will discourse most eloquent music.
Hoists sails and flies.
Aside
right cheek
But see his exequies fulfill'd in Rouen:
in this age his own tomb ere he dies, he shall live
Worthy man!
I leave myself, my friends and all, for love.
Tell our devotion with revengeful arms?
trouble: the fashion of the world is to avoid
Go to them, with this bonnet in thy hand;
enforced, for which he suffered death.
Shine out, fair sun, till I have bought a glass,
I something do excuse the thing I hate,
heir-apparent, could the world pick thee out three
For their own good and ours.
Come you to make confession to this father?
I'll give but notice you are dead and send him
But to confirm my curses! Could I meet 'em
I did present him with the Paris balls.
I do wander everywhere,
points more than all the lawyers in Bohemia can
Tear-falling pity dwells not in this eye.
No, Antony;
Not whom we will, but whom his grace affects,
Did steer humanity: but you, gods, will give us
No, faith, hate him not, for my sake.
'Tis true; she rides me and I long for grass.
To let you know my thoughts.
state totters.
In seeking to augment it, but still keep
me on. Yea, but how if honour prick me off when I
Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
And I will give a taste of it forthwith
But we will be revenged sufficiently
Go, after, after, cousin Buckingham.
As cognizance of my blood-drinking hate,
Cry 'Courage! to the field!' And thou hast talk'd
sighs; and conjure thee to pardon Rome, and thy
To take 't again perforce! Monster ingratitude!
He was a man, take him for all in all,
to lay an amiable siege to the honesty of this
And shall, albeit sweet music issues thence.
At hours unmeet, or that I yesternight
Thou speakest wonders.
Not a man of those but he hath the wit to lose his hair.
To bar heaven's shaft, but sin had his reward.
Exit Shylock
Henry Bolingbroke
If this be courtesy, sir, accept of it.
To trust the mockery of unquiet slumbers
prove a good soldier-breeder: shall not thou and I,
He will not say so.
This wide-chapp'd rascal--would thou mightst lie drowning
My lords, forbear this talk; here comes the king.
So shaken as we are, so wan with care,
Mine eyes are full of tears, my heart of grief.
Unworthy thee,--if ever henceforth thou
Exit FALSTAFF
To Painter
To BRABANTIO
When Laban and himself were compromised
I will your serious and great business scant
By custom and the ordinance of times
remembered, that such a one and such a one were past
Agree to any covenants, and procure
town is beseeched, and the trumpet call us to the
Find liable to our crown and dignity,
Rest you fair, good signior;
Nay, that you shall not: since you have begun,
Whether it was his wisdom or his fear.
O, no! alas, I rather hate myself
What, of death too,
Why, thou didst conclude hairy men plain dealers without wit.
A man I am cross'd with adversity;
Which, in the day of battle, tire thee more
And rush'd into the bowels of the battle.
O dainty duck! O dear!
And the late marriage made of none effect
Five or six thousand; but very weak and
O villains, vipers, damn'd without redemption!
protest your cowardice. You have killed a sweet
To grace this latter age with noble deeds.
Enter the ARCHBISHOP OF YORK, young YORK, QUEEN ELIZABETH, and the DUCHESS OF YORK
SCENE III. The same. A public place.
'The rugged Pyrrhus, like the Hyrcanian beast,'--
the bricks are alive at this day to testify it;
This is too much;
I pour the helpless balm of my poor eyes.
By the name of most kind hostess; and shut up
seem to scorch me up like a burning-glass! Here's
Think upon me! hang 'em!
Pray heaven, the king may never find a heart
Why, sir, you know this is your wedding-day:
That's thousand to one good one--when you now see
i' the church, I would have swinged him, or he
My deeds upon my head! I crave the law,
Out of the gripes of cruel men, and give it
Throttle their practised accent in their fears
What damned error, but some sober brow
Out of my sight!
Until the queen his mistress bury it.
The exchange of thy love's faithful vow for mine.
Brentford?
there were no living near her; she would infect to
O, had we never, never hunted there!--
He said he would not ransom Mortimer;
And this my neighbour too?
As when mine empire was your fellow too,
A pox of that jest! and I beshrew all shrows.
Before the time be out? no more!
And you embrace the occasion to depart.
your niece give me this prerogative of speech,'--
From hence attend dispatch. Our good old friend,
Or else you get no beef of Grumio.
And here I'll fling the pillow, there the bolster,
Whence cometh this alarum and the noise?
Within this three mile may you see it coming;
other reason but because thou hast hazel eyes: what
In doing courtesies, and one in whom
To hold a rival place with one of them,
Then, till the fury of his highness settle,
Where, he shall see, the boar will use us kindly.
He is the only man of Italy.
Men were deceivers ever,
because your heart is in love with her; and out of
Look on thy country, look on fertile France,
You are welcome, sir, to Cyprus.--Goats and monkeys!
Old men forget: yet all shall be forgot,
It should be thus with him: he must die tomorrow.
Of lords and ladies, having brought the queen
And then we will deliver you the cause,
This is the law, and this Duke Humphrey's doom.
When back again this ring shall be deliver'd:
For that I am prepared and full resolved.
Though I confess, on base and ground enough,
Which, I presume, he'll take in gentle part.
I am near to the place where they should meet, if
So many thousand times? Go, counsellor;
Tell her, Emilia.
Justice, most sacred duke, against the abbess!
Dies
The Duke of Bedford had a prisoner
Shall sit and pant in your great chairs of ease,
I am sure the duke
But there remains a scruple in that too;
And to myself become an enemy.
The dogs did yell: put L to sore, then sorel jumps
[Within]  Have at you with another; that's--When?
Katharine our queen, before the primest creature
The Roman emperor greets you all by me;
O, that estates, degrees and offices
Talk you of killing?
Of damned witchcraft, and that have prevail'd
Our spoils he kick'd at,
Farewell: if heart's presages be not vain,
Tush! I may as well say the fool's the fool. But
A woman sometimes scorns what best contents her.
Still blush, as thinking their own kisses sin;
He would not stay at your petitions: made
thou art king? and resolution thus fobbed as it is
Both as the same, or rather ours the elder,
Thy rage sham burn thee up, and thou shalt turn
A ship you sent me to, to hire waftage.
Sweet Portia,
That John may stand, then Arthur needs must fall;
Which is that Barnardine?
Faith, here it is.
And living too; for now his son is duke.
I shall be much bound to you for't: I am one that
As roughly as my modesty would let me.
For by his rusty outside he appears
And false.
comondy a Christmas gambold or a tumbling-trick?
This battle fares like to the morning's war,
of letter did.
Enter the Ghosts of RIVERS, GRAY, and VAUGHAN
Still a-repairing, ever out of frame,
discovered the secrets of your army and made such
To Salisbury; the rest march on with me.
Time is the nurse and breeder of all good.
Sharp Buckingham unburthens with his tongue
Aaron, what shall I say unto the empress?
It shall be to the Duchess of Alencon,
The human mortals want their winter here;
it? dispense with trifles; what is it?
Both warbling of one song, both in one key,
To God, his sovereign and to him disloyal;
So are you.
More rancorous spite, more furious raging broils,
Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
With patience, noble lord, as prisoners must:
This small inheritance my father left me
My most honourable lord, I am e'en sick of shame,
Or like a creature native and indued
To see her noble lord restored to health,
Would create soldiers, make our women fight,
May bare the raven's eye! I lodge in fear;
Enter Servant
This music crept by me upon the waters,
Is he not jealous?
Thou shalt fly him and he shall seek thy love.
may tutor thee: thou scurvy-valiant ass! thou art
Stabs him
Strong and fasten'd villain
Her mood will needs be pitied.
It is my fashion, when I see a crab.
That's my fear. I pray you, have a continent
Cries 'Excellent! 'tis Agamemnon just.
But, as I think,--for truly would I speak,
Swear by my sword.
As enemy to the people and his country:
When that the watery palate tastes indeed
Disbursed I duly to his highness' soldiers;
As, walk'd your first queen's ghost,
Thou know'st our reasons urged upon the way;
[To a Servingman]  What lady is that, which doth
And keep your honours safe!
That weep'st to see me triumph? Ay, my dear,
For honesty and decent carriage,
mean pirates, and then there is the peril of waters,
king's sake, he were living! I think it would be
Full thirty thousand marks of English coin.
Who I'll entreat to lead me.
And your reports have set the murder on.
See justice done on Aaron, that damn'd Moor,
Anon.
By giving the house of Lancaster leave to breathe,
Of dire combustion and confused events
We must not. A noble prisoner!
'Till I have no wife, I have nothing in France.'
But that's no matter; let him kill one first;
As to peace-parted souls.
That indirectly and directly too
My husband and my lord, my lord and husband;
never acted; or, if it was, not above once; for the
Now trust me, madam, it came hardly off;
When shall we hear from him?
With this young prince.
If you be one, as you are well express'd
Enter MENENIUS and Senators
partridge wing saved, for the fool will eat no
tuft of earth; fire enough for a flint, pearl enough
traitor. Bless thy five wits! Tom's a-cold,--O, do
Ay, and mark thee too, Jack.
Which of you know Ford of this town?
The untented woundings of a father's curse
According to the which, thou shalt discourse
Where is the Duke of Norfolk, gentle Warwick?
To be so taken at thy peril, Jew.
What, my lord?
Or wolf, or both,--for he is equal ravenous
Nay, go not back.
He's banish'd, and it shall be so.
such a foolish song. God be wi' you; and God mend
If you love her, you cannot see her.
Action is eloquence, and the eyes of the ignorant
Hark you, he swears; by Jupiter he swears.
Would you have a love-song, or a song of good life?
With divers deaths in death.
O, let me view his visage, being dead,
most nearly appertains to us both. I think our
Troth, no; no more than reason.
But, will the king
Love is a smoke raised with the fume of sighs;
And that you fly them as you swear them lordship,
himself for your succession in Denmark?
Re-enter Servant with boots
Ay, marry, go, I say, and fetch him hither.
All his successors gone before him hath done't; and
So call it: but it does fulfil my vow;
Is this face Hero's? are our eyes our own?
My lord, I am a man whom fortune hath cruelly
Trumpets sound. Enter KING HENRY V, SCROOP, CAMBRIDGE, GREY, and Attendants
Now help, ye charming spells and periapts;
Urge the necessity and state of times,
Now have I paid my vow unto his soul;
'Tis past, my liege;
To beg relief among Rome's enemies:
Up in my heart; which I have given already,
Gold were as good as twenty orators,
That what you speak is in your conscience wash'd
Exeunt
Bid him encamp his soldiers where they are:
Elected him our absence to supply,
For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
Close at the heels of her virtues.
Romeo, away, be gone!
Understanding, it strikes a man more dead than a
A parlous boy: go to, you are too shrewd.
And here will Talbot mount, or make his grave.
Some sudden qualm hath struck me at the heart
Give me leave, Caesar,--
Now comes the sick hour that his surfeit made;
O heavens!
Ay, such a place there is, where we did hunt--
Thou art a traitor and a miscreant,
I lodge my wife; I'll go in couples with her;
We lop away, that bearing boughs may live:
And fetch shrill echoes from the hollow earth.
To you all three,
And leave us to our free election.
More light and light; more dark and dark our woes!
And Henry is my king, Warwick his subject.
With other virtues, which I'll keep from boast:
What means that trump?
Will be as rash in the repeal, as hasty
Within the centre.
there is such odds in the man. In pity of the
For nature so preposterously to err,
In our first way.
Falls
If Bertram be away. 'Twere all one
Vouchsafe good morrow from a feeble tongue.
Sometimes her head on one side, some another;
He is afraid of me and I of him:
And humming water must o'erwhelm thy corpse,
Pistol!
Looks in the clouds, scorning the base degrees
offend: only, have a care that your bills be not
My tears shall wipe away these bloody marks;
My tongue, though not my heart, shall have his will.
Of him that, his particular to foresee,
Refuse it not; it hath no tongue to vex you;
What we are come about, and by no means
The cardinal's letters to the pope miscarried,
called me brother; and then the two kings called my
Will not the mayor then and his brethren come?
Come, to our flock.
particulars of my life.
Than curse it then. But be it; let it live.
Now He that made me knows I see thee ill;
But one fiend at a time,
be swine-drunk; and in his sleep he does little
For know, my love, as easy mayest thou fall
My stay, my guide and lantern to my feet:
for thou art not so long by the head as
SCENE II. A Street.
A gross fat man.
To live a barren sister all your life,
No, not a man comes for redress of thee;
He has done nobly, and cannot go without any honest
Is often left unloved; we should have met you
To women of all fashion; lastly, hurried
Tell o'er your woes again by viewing mine:
I think it well:
Doth that grieve thee?
No money, on my faith, but the gleek;
caitiffs left!
have all his rites.
Well demanded, wench:
Do not itself unkennel in one speech,
In the contempt and anger of his lip!
Will you be married, motley?
Than we bring men to comfort them:
Enter ACHILLES and PATROCLUS
So your dislike, to whom I would be pleasing,
SCENE II. The coast of Wales. A castle in view.
Charles and the rest will take thee in their arms.
Guilty, my lord, guilty! I confess, I confess.
Re-enter LYSANDER
Or I will fetch thy rim out at thy throat
I'll have the current in this place damm'd up;
And spurn upon thee, beggar, for thy boldness.
To grapple with the house of Lancaster;
Let each man render me his bloody hand:
I had rather hear a brazen canstick turn'd,
Alexander the Great.
You know the peril.
become me: my way is to conjure you; and I'll begin
How will my mother for a father's death
Here comes the queen, whose looks bewray her anger:
See, ho! who is that there?
Or, for my diamond, the chain you promised,
That are without him, as place, riches, favour,
'Tis even so; yet you are Warwick still.
Take heed, for heaven's sake, take heed, lest at once
But 'twas ere I was born.
How you shall bid God 'ild us for your pains,
to Madam Silvia, which, out of my neglect, was never done.
You shake, my lord, at something: will you go?
ANTIPHOLUS
Finding yourself desired of such a person,
Yea, the same.
beseech you, follow.
To the cardinal's:
which time of the contract and limit of the
From thee, my boy, and had the maidenhood
Nothing, my lord.
I claimed the crown, had issue, Philippe, a daughter,
For ever and for ever shall be yours.
nightingale.
But, sirrah, mark, we use
Or bathe my dying honour in the blood
As you love Rosalind, meet:
she was of Carthage, not of Tunis.
The world shall not be ransom for thy life.
Exeunt
Would you praise Caesar, say 'Caesar:' go no further.
Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
Enter LONGAVILLE, with a paper
So there's my riddle: one that's dead is quick:
You shall not make me welcome:
To both their deaths thou shalt be accessary.
And pleasure drown the brim.
Finish, good lady; the bright day is done,
Exit
Had I sufficient skill to utter them,
Takes the skull
Throbs to know one thing: tell me, if your art
With twenty watchful, weary, tedious nights:
Lay me, O, where
When the alarum were struck than idly sit
Exit
That day appear'd; and oft before gave audience,
Thus, leaning on mine elbow, I begin,
As many devils entertain; and 'To her, boy,' say I.
must incline to the king. I will seek him, and
Good angels keep it from us!
The Duke of Exeter is as magnanimous as Agamemnon;
For the whole space that's in the tyrant's grasp,
'Ad Jovem,' that's for you: here, 'Ad Apollinem:'
Would bear thee from the knowledge of thyself,
I would they'ld fight i' the fire or i' the air;
Re-enter ARIEL, with the Master and Boatswain amazedly following
Well guess'd, believe me; for that was my meaning.
By Roderigo and fellows that are scaped:
With all the abhorred births below crisp heaven
Hold, Rosaline, this favour thou shalt wear,
Albeit my wrongs might make one wiser mad.
There's strange news come, sir.
Courage to make 's love kno wn?
they would have hanged him: and I pray God his bad
And, whilst I at a banquet hold him sure,
Thou dost o'er-count me of my father's house:
house is better than this rain-water out o' door.
And yet his trespass, in our common reason--
But there are other strict observances;
Have sold their lives unto the house of York;
Titus, thou shalt obtain and ask the empery.
That like the stately Phoebe 'mongst her nymphs
How, how, Cordelia! mend your speech a little,
Or, if not so, thy noble heart to break:
Than whereupon our weal, on you depending,
And makes a god of such a cullion:
A sceptre snatch'd with an unruly hand
The gallant, young and noble gentleman,
Bears no impression of the thing it was.
Here comes your uncle.
Therefore be out of hope, of question, of doubt;
hid in the garden.
Envenoms him that bears it!
knowing, to a stranger of his quality.
What is't you do?
That in their country did them that disgrace,
God hold it, to your honour's good content!
Or I shall say you are all in all in spleen,
Caesar and Antony shall well greet together:
Where have you lurk'd, that you make doubt of it?
We term it 'mulier:' which 'mulier' I divine
Is colder tidings, yet they must be told.
Of burning cressets; and at my birth
Lurk, lurk.
Full surfeits, and the dryness of his bones,
Let me, upon my knee, prevail in this.
am in love. I'll tell thee, Aliena, I cannot be out
Heaven make you better than your thoughts!
Had of your father claim'd this son for his?
Of murder's arms: this is the bloodiest shame,
My love is thine to teach: teach it but how,
And rattles in their hands: upon a sudden,
Ask what thou wilt. That I had said and done!
'Tis so, my lord.
And twenty glow-worms shall our lanterns be,
Great cause to give great thanks.
Disguising what they are.
To any sovereign state throughout the world.
Enter a Captain
Your offer. Come, dearest madam. O, no tears,
Would sink and overwhelm you. Away!
In the seat royal of this famous isle?
Very well, my lord.
His viands sparkling in a golden cup,
thought any such matter: God is my witness, I am
A federary with her, and one that knows
Good angels guard thee from the boar's annoy!
Came crying 'mongst his foes,
Ravish'd and wrong'd, as Philomela was,
Gentlemen and soldiers, pardon me; I will not combat
So I will, sir.
That can denote me truly: these indeed seem,
This wicked emperor may have shipp'd her hence;
To do him justice and revenge on you.
Thou art deceived: 'tis not thy southern power,
And, among three, to love the worst of all;
Tut, I have lost myself; I am not here;
I hear as good exclamation on your worship as of any
What is this?
though his affections are higher mounted than ours,
thefts were too open; his filching was like an
Of rare and proved effects, such as his reading
And let me find a charter in your voice,
Son, on my life,
To BIANCA
Each man apart, all single and alone,
for he is very slow-gaited. But I go.
That, with his sons, a terror to our foes,
honourable respect, and worn as a memorable trophy of
Hector, then 'tis wars.
countries in her.
Thou liest.
The office and devotion of their view
What, have you writ that letter to my sister?
company. Is that the meaning of 'accost'?
How painted? and how out of count?
Is this Achilles?
To excel the golden age.
by Phoebus, he,'that wandering knight so fair.' And,
We'ld jump the life to come. But in these cases
To Bolingbroke.
Distinctly speak of her; though I may fear
Here stands a lord, and there a lady weeping;
Get you a place.
What doth our cousin lay to Mowbray's charge?
Or with a base and boisterous sword enforce
And stop their mouths, if they begin to cry.
I come no more to make you laugh: things now,
Thou art a gentleman and well derived;
And I had his, sir Robert's his, like him;
For art and exercise in your defence
Short tale to make, we at Saint Alban's met
Receive it from me. I speak not yet of proof.
Where is Lucentio?
The hearers to collection; they aim at it,
The Douglas and the Hotspur both together
Then let me die, for now thou hast no cause.
Whose blush doth thaw the consecrated snow
O, sir, are you come?
I do repent: but heaven hath pleased it so,
Not to knit my soul to an approved wanton.
Thou shalt not stir a foot to seek a foe.
Thou art the nonpareil.
You must return and mend it.
Old, cold, withered and of intolerable entrails?
We turn not back the silks upon the merchant,
With that, methoughts, a legion of foul fiends
I will inform your father.
And wish, so please my sovereign, ere I move,
For two and twenty sons I never wept,
Thy father's charge shall clear thee from that stain.
A trembling contribution! Why, we take
His master's son, as worshipful as he terms it,
Nor I neither; but I can tell why a snail has a house.
The ladder made of cords, and all the means
Unto the secret nameless friend of yours;
Adieu, adieu! Hamlet, remember me.
at home for you.
An't had been a green hair, I should have laughed
bridegroom wants
What lady would you choose to assail?
As surely as my soul intends to live
How does he, sirrah?
Enter Corporal NYM and Lieutenant BARDOLPH
I am glad on 't: then we shall ha' means to vent
That which I durst not speak; his present gift
Let me have Hermia's: do you marry him.
These Kentish rebels would be soon appeased!
strain, of approved valour and confirmed honesty. I
The breese upon her, like a cow in June,
Report should render him hourly to your ear
The baby of a girl. Hence, horrible shadow!
Be held by you denials. Do not bid me
Exit above
Anon, anon, sir.
That honour saved may upon asking give?
'Tis best to give him way; he leads himself.
Hath given the duchy of Anjou and Maine
gain-giving, as would perhaps trouble a woman.
By Richard that dead is the next of blood?
As you commanded me.
To serve, and to deserve my mistress' grace;
Know, Caesar doth not wrong, nor without cause
Who can be angry now? what envy reach you?
And sell the mighty space of our large honours
will clog the foot of a flea, I'll eat the rest of
Stays here longer.
Just opposite to what thou justly seem'st,
I'll through and through you! and, thou great-sized coward,
Presumes to reach, all thy whole heap must die.
Are you agreed?
throats to be cut, and works to be done; and there
Run not before mine honour, nor my lusts
How does your lady? and how thrives your love?
Pride, pomp and circumstance of glorious war!
Exeunt
Farewell, York's wife, and queen of sad mischance:
In levity: since which time of five years
You were not bid to speak.
Than such a Roman.
I think no less. Good morrow to your lordship.
No, by my soul, she was not,
On the opposer.
And much I need to help you, if need were;
That strew the green lap of the new come spring?
So it must fall out
SCENE III. The forest.
Who's that?
Her sighs will make a battery in his breast;
Have I in conquest stretch'd mine arm so far,
'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.'
Roundly replied.
By their own fear or sloth.
Turning the widows' tears, the orphans' cries
Namely, some love that drew him oft from home.
Well then, now
So stakes me to the ground I cannot move.
This foul Egyptian hath betrayed me:
I know not what; but format in apparel,
To smother up the English in our throngs,
Spoke like a sprightful noble gentleman.
To sleep: perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub;
Why are we met in council?
Come unto these yellow sands,
But, by the mass, our hearts are in the trim;
A royal lady, spake one the least word that might
Fellow, commend my service to her beauty;
On any ground that I am ruler of,
'Tis certain, then, for Cyprus.
Let us leave here, gentlemen.
Then make your garden rich in gillyvors,
So say I too, sir.
against me; he stands there, like a mortar-piece, to
With every several pleasure in the world,
To cross my friend in his intended drift
I am not to his manners. O Lorenzo,
Hold up your hands, say nothing; I'll speak all.
With Romeo, till I behold him--dead--
Thy sting is not so sharp
You shall.
Madam, so I did.
Alencon, Reignier, compass him about,
Strange things I have in head, that will to hand;
But something may be done that we will not:
My Lord!
that, unless a man were cursed, I cannot tell what
I have almost forgot the taste of fears;
The long-grown wounds of my intemperance:
it follows,
My fault being nothing--as I have told you oft--
And hath so humbled me, as, I confess,
Her love is not the hare that I do hunt:
His cocks do win the battle still of mine,
O base Hungarian wight! wilt thou the spigot wield?
I make all use of it, for I use it only.
Save you, Master Doctor Caius!
Prunes the immortal wing and cloys his beak,
'Tis past, and so am I. But what art thou
disclosed.
I was directed hither: men report
Here is a path to't: 'tis some savage hold:
inclination, after his undressed, unpolished,
In my green velvet coat, my dagger muzzled,
That ever I should call thee castaway!
Thy sister's sister.
A ring he hath of mine worth forty ducats,
No less than life, with grace, health, beauty, honour;
No more obey the heavens than our courtiers
Enter QUEEN ELIZABETH, with her hair about her ears; RIVERS, and DORSET after her
I never saw till now. I knew thy grandsire,
His brother, Archbishop late of Canterbury,
This is the truth, or let Benvolio die.
Be crown'd with plagues that thee alone obey!
As the Venus of the sky.
Nor his beauty.
Doth swear to the gods that winter kills the flies:
So dying love lives still:
He is in haste; therefore, I pray you to go.
And let your mind be coupled with your words.
The flowers fair ladies, and thy steps no more
cried in the top of mine--an excellent play, well
And where that you have vow'd to study, lords,
Quick is mine ear to hear of good towards him.
Thou hast a perfect thought:
Our Roman hunting.
To-morrow to the field.
You are a fair viol, and your sense the strings;
The eldest son and heir of John of Gaunt,
by'r lady, inclining to three score; and now I
Exeunt Servants
Is to receive our duties; and our duties
Ere twice the horses of the sun shall bring
Troth, my lord, I have played the part of Lady Fame.
by the flesh; and he must needs go that the devil drives.
What, of my suit?
And are upon the Mediterranean flote,
Commit myself, my person and the cause.
is, she shall be ploughed.
Come, Clarence, come; thou wilt, if Warwick call.
With all prerogative: hence his ambition growing--
Therefore present to her--as sometime Margaret
Till he communicate his parts to others:
Good Pandarus, how now, Pandarus!
These are their tutors: bid them use them well.
To ransom home revolted Mortimer.
jealousy man: she leads a very frampold life with
No, no, my heart will burst, and if I speak:
Foretells a tempest and a blustering day.
For hand to hand he would have vanquish'd thee.
Not to pick bad from bad, but by bad mend!
Is an unlesson'd girl, unschool'd, unpractised;
I cannot, nor I will not, hold me still;
Enter MISTRESS PAGE
And hunger will enforce them to be more eager:
Enter KING JOHN, QUEEN ELINOR, PEMBROKE, ESSEX, SALISBURY, and others, with CHATILLON
Is't true? can't be?
Which is not tomb enough and continent
At least I'm sure it may be so in Denmark:
And death approach not ere my tale be done.
Come on--you hear this fellow in the cellarage--
Exit
What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
Art thou of blood and honour?
You scarcely have the hearts to tell me so,
Sirrah, what made your master in this place?
were dry, I am able to fill it with my tears; if the
Alarum. Retreat. Enter YORK, RICHARD, WARWICK, and Soldiers, with drum and colours
Free from oppression or the stroke of war,
Go, get thee gone, I say.
Nay, I'll give my word for her too: our kindred,
Unto the judge that begg'd it and indeed
myself a king of infinite space, were it not that I
The Roman legions, all from Gallia drawn,
me: no, nor woman neither, though by your smiling
Well run, Thisbe.
As shall be proved upon you?
Day serves not light more faithful than I'll be.
Post back with speed, and tell him what hath chanced:
Who goes there?
But to say I know more harm in him than in myself,
Enter Apothecary
Thinking on them, go I unto the Tower.
That I some lady trifles have reserved,
with the young noble soldier.
And yet, good Humphrey, is the hour to come
Pardon me, sir; it was a black ill-favor'd fly,
This something-settled matter in his heart,
And being join'd, I'll thus your hopes destroy;
To think o' the teen that I have turn'd you to,
have neither words nor measure, and for the other, I
O Romeo, Romeo! wherefore art thou Romeo?
If it be aught toward the general good,
carries his house on his head; a better jointure,
I must not look to have; but, in their stead,
And the twin Dromio all were taken up;
Masters,--
one tear: he is a stone, a very pebble stone, and
As you are great, be pitifully good:
Not my virginity yet [         ]
Forgetting any other home but this.
In pruning me? When shall you hear that I
You must no more call it York-place, that's past;
A crow without feather? Master, mean you so?
Exit
As plain as I see you now.
Than on the torture of the mind to lie
As of a man faithful and honourable.
the deed in the praise.
Dark needs no candles now, for dark is light.
Am pregnant to good pity. Give me your hand,
And how the English have the suburbs won.
To him that flourish'd for her with his sword
At your kind'st leisure.
and, masters, do not forget to specify, when time
By Lady Fortune; while our scene must play
The insatiate greediness of his desires,
The wine of life is drawn, and the mere lees
Enter OSWALD
This day shall be a love-day, Tamora.
Well, heaven knows how I love you; and you shall one
Go to; 'homo' is a common name to all men. Bid the
To do that office of thine own good will
And by that fire which burn'd the Carthage queen,
Great reason that my noble lord be rated
I will peat his pate four days. Bite, I pray you; it
Is that temptation that doth goad us on
'Where is the thousand marks I gave thee, villain?'
So, king, go safely on to seek thy son.
novelty is only in request; and it is as dangerous
Slander myself as false to Edward's bed;
At Patrick's cell this even; and there she was not;
And therefore 'tis high time that I were hence.
No, my good lord.
Or of devotion, to this holy shrine?
Nor hast thou pleasure to be cross in talk,
With my well saying!
What's his will else?
Hanging a golden stamp about their necks,
No, wrangling woman, we'll no longer stay:
For the instalment of this noble duke
Where when men been, there's seldom ease;
[Aside to TROILUS]  Follow his torch; he goes to
Or is it some abuse, and no such thing?
I will not keep this form upon my head,
Else would I very shortly see thee there.
Here you shall see a countryman of yours
O, for such means!
Thrive, give him over: must I take the cure upon me?
Usurping ivy, brier, or idle moss;
what's noble,
How goes the day with us? O, tell me, Hubert.
Give thee her hand, for sign of plighted faith.
O villain, thou stolest a cup of sack eighteen years
I had it of him: pardon me, Bassanio;
Nay, hear me, Isabel.
I must not have you henceforth question me
I know his noble nature--not to let
To-morrow: now, if you could wear a mind
Draw together;
Who only by misfortune of the seas
Heart of our numbers, soul and only spirit.
And cursed be he that will not second it.
Whoever spoke it, it is true, my lord.
They have placed their men of trust?
Usurp'd from you and your progenitors.
Subdue and poison this young maid's affections?
Outside or inside, I will not return
repute and carriage.
Be not thy tongue thy own shame's orator;
If he should stay at home to-day for fear.
Never in your life, I think; unless you see canary
child or pupil, undertake your ben venuto; where I
That I may slumber in eternal sleep!
For Humphrey being dead, as he shall be,
Methought I heard a voice cry 'Sleep no more!
Of this new marriage with the Lady Grey?
Most lamentable day, most woful day,
The record of what injuries you did us,
[Aside]          I do suspect you, madam;
with Sir Oliver Martext, the vicar of the next
Him that thou magnifiest with all these titles
That you'll vouchsafe me raiment, bed, and food.'
I have a suit unto your lordship.
And shortly mean to touch our northern shore:
Satisfy me so.
We would not die in that man's company
Would thou wouldst burst!
For more assurance that a living prince
We learn no other but the confident tyrant
No blame belongs to thee.
Enter DESDEMONA, CASSIO, and EMILIA
Fly o'er thy royal head, and shade thy person
list of too cold an adieu: be more expressive to
And thou, by that small hurt, hast cashier'd Cassio:
him once again, and then I will tell him a little
recover him, I will help his ague. Come. Amen! I
sport out of him: by his authority he remains here,
And with your blood and it I'll make a paste,
inventoried, and every particle and utensil
From any other foul unlawful touch
Not carry her aboard. If she remain,
Enter KING LEAR, Fool, and Gentleman
The weeds which his broad-spreading leaves did shelter,
What say'st thou to me now? speak once again.
'Tis much deep: and it should seem by the sun,
I pray you, tell it.
Against the Roman state, whose course will on
Have I commandment on the pulse of life?
Stay, stay thy hands! thou art an Amazon
Raise all my kindred. Are they married, think you?
Why did he marry Fulvia, and not love her?
That I must love a loathed enemy.
Sir, pardon me in what I have to say:
Abound, as thick as thought could make 'em, and
say 'There were wit in this head, an 'twould out;'
The one and other Diomed embraces.
Good fellow, tell us here the circumstance,
Enter a Scrivener, with a paper in his hand
With more of thine: this love that thou hast shown
These are their brethren, whom you Goths beheld
To pray Achilles see us at our tent.
He thinks he still is at his instrument.
Is come from Caesar; therefore hear it, Antony.
received from her another embassy of meeting; 'twixt
Hereditary sloth instructs me.
are not alike; alas, good neighbour!
I am in this earthly world; where to do harm
Here's a young maid with travel much oppress'd
greatness to impart to Armado, a soldier, a man of
I would not have you, lord, forget yourself,
I recovered it.
Belike she minds to play the Amazon.
Infused with a fortitude from heaven,
As in revenge of thy ingratitude,
Have you heard the argument? Is there no offence in 't?
Should be full-fraught with serviceable vows.
Come, come, do you think I do not know you by your
thy master's father, Vincentio?
The king my father shall be made acquainted
And make me die the thrall of Margaret's curse,
Transported, with no worse nor better guard
I shall, sir.
SCENE II. The DUKE OF YORK's palace.
Show him your hand.
My residence in Rome at one Philario's,
Thaisa was my mother, who did end
The love of wicked men converts to fear;
Ay, ay, ay, ay; 'tis too plain a case.
Gentle my lord, sleek o'er your rugged looks;
O, stay and hear; your true love's coming,
That through our intercession this revokement
Not half so old as that. I'll write against them,
You're welcome,
Dead, I think. Help, uncle!
How now, Mephostophilus!
Perjury, perjury, in the high'st degree
hath great care to please his wife.
SCENE I. Saint Alban's.
I'll love her dearly, ever, ever dearly.
I would not take this from report; it is,
Enter HECATE to the other three Witches
Is gone, we know not how nor where.
When you durst do it, then you were a man;
Then tell us, shall your city call us lord,
Be thou blest, Bertram, and succeed thy father
Sexton too.
Have never wing'd from view o' the nest, nor know not
And raise his issue, like a loving sire;
take him to be a thief too, sir; for we have found
He seems to be of great authority: close with him,
all flesh and blood are; and, indeed, I do marry
As ravenous fishes, do a vessel follow
That what he speaks is all in debt; he owes
more detraction at your heels than fortunes before
For it was sometime target to a king;
For, in my conscience, I was the first man
Yet if my name were liable to fear,
I will knog your urinals about your knave's cockscomb
married man more honourable than the bare brow of a
Shall have the chinks.
The stronger part of it by her own letters, which
Of Timon man and all humanity!
Plunged in the foaming brine and quit the vessel,
Yet who than he more mean?--to knit their souls,
And sent according to command; whiles I
Though his false finger have profaned the ring,
In solemn show attend this funeral;
Through the house give gathering light,
Phebe, with all my heart.
Sit thee down, Clitus: slaying is the word;
I have known my husband; yet my husband
Tell me, sweet lord, what is't that takes from thee
Now, my friendly knave, I thank thee: there's
They wrestle
As Paris hath. Beshrew my very heart,
Ay, an you had any eye behind you, you might see
That Photinus an eunuch and your maids
The itch of his affection should not then
her; swore as many oaths as I spake words, and
And I will overhear their conference.
Dry sorrow drinks our blood. Adieu, adieu!
In those foundations which I build upon,
And the very ports they blow,
and shall, at the least of thy sweet notice, bring
Gramercy! wouldst thou aught with me?
Mine was not bridled.
In double knavery--How, how? Let's see:--
you to gratify the table with a grace, I will, on my
To the Doctor
To cross the seas and to be crown'd in France:
The azured harebell, like thy veins, no, nor
And bring him out that is but woman's son
Give me some help here, ho! If thou proceed
War, death, or sickness did lay siege to it,
My death's revenge, thy youth, and England's fame:
Marry, you are the wiser man; for many a man's
What's he comes here?
I never thought him worse.
shall never requite him.
Is made with all due diligence
If but as well I other accents borrow,
Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue.
A seeming mermaid steers: the silken tackle
Retain but privilege of a private man?
his fortune and prevents the slander of his wife.
I had well hoped thou wouldst have denied Beatrice,
sir? You are very well met: God 'ild you for your
One that goes with him: I love him for his sake;
There's two or three of us have seen strange sights.
Wise in our negligence, have secret feet
ACT IV
That left the camp to sin in Lucrece' bed?
And honour'd in their issue.
What are his words?
And so beguile thy sorrow, till the heavens
And that I would not for a cow, God save her!
[Within]  Can you tell for whose sake?
Which, to preserve mine honour, I'll perform.
Sir Proteus, your father calls for you:
Then hadst thou had an excellent head of hair.
That made them do it: they are wise and honourable,
Can you eat roots, and drink cold water? no.
Why he, a woollen bagpipe; but of force
in the city? are they so followed?
Nothing.
Why, what is pomp, rule, reign, but earth and dust?
on the highway: beating and hanging are terrors to
for, I assure thee, and almost with tears I speak
Methinks I see this hurly all on foot:
And that old common arbitrator, Time,
To match you where I hate; therefore beseech you
Heaven comfort her!
Exeunt
creeping thing.
With juice of balm and every precious flower:
Of present dues: the future comes apace:
Exit
And whom, by heaven I swear, I tender dearly,
Have to you, but with thanks to God for such
'Twas not a haud credo; 'twas a pricket.
and meet me in the palace wood, a mile without the
To her foul-tainted flesh!
But I and Harry Monmouth! Tell me, tell me,
The Welshmen are dispersed, and Salisbury
And gain a husband by his liberty.
I cannot read; the character I'll take with wax:
I am a right maid for my cowardice:
Shall be my precedent; as thou got'st Milan,
Four nights will quickly dream away the time;
O inglorious league!
So shall his father's wrongs be recompensed.
Exeunt
votarist: you have told me she hath received them
therefore I'll hide me.
Runs far before them. Good my sovereign,
And, for I should not deal in her soft laws,
And oftentimes excusing of a fault
acquaintance, I will be point-devise the very man.
arraigned of high treason, in committing adultery
knowledge be more it is much darkened in your malice.
To whom shouldst thou give it?
Who comes here?
For here I read for certain that my ships
Enter HORATIO and MARCELLUS
Stay, let thy humble handmaid speak to thee.
love hath made thee a tame snake, and say this to
Fall to the base earth from the firmament.
Why, all the boys in Venice follow him,
Shall in the general censure take corruption
Then thou art damned.
I'll never do you wrong for your own sake:
Come, now towards Chertsey with your holy load,
I do remit these young men's heinous faults: Stand up.
Into her scornful eyes! Infect her beauty,
Let them accuse me by invention, I
with beating; I am waked with it when I sleep;
The Fairies sing
It beats as it would fall in twenty pieces.
Believe me, there is no such thing in me.
First, for his weeping into the needless stream;
Surprise her with discourse of my dear faith:
Cricket, to Windsor chimneys shalt thou leap:
Three in Egypt
you flout old ends any further, examine your
Right.
Frenchmen, I'll be a Salisbury to you:
While they have told their money and let out
They have the more need to sleep now, then.
And in my conduct shall your ladies come;
O, the gibbet-maker! he says that he hath taken
women, the virginal palms of your daughters, or with
weather continuing, this mystery remained
That it might please you to give quiet pass
By debitor and creditor: this counter-caster,
My first son.
For slander lives upon succession,
Here is my hand, and here I firmly vow
Not sleeping, to engross his idle body,
If you have told Diana's altar true,
Nay, that shall not serve your turn; that shall not,
In dear employment: therefore hence, be gone:
Enter TROILUS
Exit
and this they con perfectly in the phrase of war,
Casting their savageness aside have done
That foul defacer of God's handiwork,
That he is dead, good Warwick, 'tis too true;
Or breed upon our absence; that may blow
Why, then the devil give him good of it!
Struck me, that thought to stay him, overboard,
and oblique memorial of cuckolds; a thrifty
which we being members, should bring ourselves to be
To BASSANIO
To your best kindness: one of your great knowing
But how long fairly shall her sweet lie last?
baisant la main d'une de votre seigeurie indigne
Why, this is to have a name in great men's
Crying, 'That's good that's gone.' Our rash faults
and vengeance bitter; but those that are germane to
I think it be thine, indeed; for thou liest in't.
We render you the tenth, to be ta'en forth,
Unmuffling
Till that the weary very means do ebb?
and debile minister, great power, great
How foolish do your fears seem now, Calpurnia!
Hector, by this, is arming him in Troy;
Good Sir John, I sue for yours: not to charge you;
Will call discreet proceeding.
A business for yourself, pray heaven you then
Enter PORTIA, NERISSA, LORENZO, JESSICA, and BALTHASAR
If that young Arthur be not gone already,
My brave spirit!
And what have kings, that privates have not too,
Besides, his cote, his flocks and bounds of feed
So, farewell to you both.
You laugh when boys or women tell their dreams;
Convert to anger; blunt not the heart, enrage it.
If my cap would buy a halter:
Go seek the traitor Gloucester,
The duke was here, and bid us follow him?
With wanton Paris sleeps; and that's the quarrel.
Why, then your uncle and the prince and Claudio
than a mischief.
Enter BASSANIO, ANTONIO, GRATIANO, and their followers
To be full like me: yet they say we are
How many children hast thou, widow? tell me.
With the next benefit o' the wind.
Do your will.
And aid thee in this doubtful shock of arms:
Who hither come engaged by my oath--
one. I come before to tell you. If you know
A most inherent baseness.
Exampled by this heinous spectacle.
Exit PRINCE HENRY
O, villain that I am!
Are we all met?
If you'll avouch 'twas wisdom Paris went--
But from her need.
Enter ARTHUR, on the walls
Reads
'Tis like the commons, rude unpolish'd hinds,
I'll set a bourn how far to be beloved.
I pray thee, peace. I will be flesh and blood;
At least, good manners, as not thus to suffer
O, do not swear!
If not fill up the measure of her will,
You are a thousand times a properer man
Remembers me of all his gracious parts,
Looks on alike. Will't please you, sir, be gone?
But, since the cuckoo builds not for himself,
Good Captain Blunt, bear my good night to him
So he did, my lord:
Shall cumber all the parts of Italy;
Without apparent hazard of his life.
O, do ye read, my lord, what she hath writ?
Why, my good lord, you need not fear;
Now these her princes are come home again,
Honour'd, beloved; and haply one as kind
Boult, spend thou that in the town: report what a
And told thee to what purpose and what end.
Contagious fogs; which falling in the land
That rends the thorns and is rent with the thorns,
you muddy knave.
Lest thou a feverous life shouldst entertain,
Those that will follow Cassius, go with him;
Exeunt all except SHALLOW, SLENDER, and SIR HUGH EVANS
Ay, by gar, and 'tis a boy: by gar, I'll raise all Windsor.
do not cast away an honest man for a villain's
A most unworthy and unnatural lord
I am no strumpet; but of life as honest
Against her maiden truth. Call me a fool;
Where is he now?
No excuse current, but to hang thyself.
Had you not been their father, these white flakes
The day that she was missing he was here:
It were a delicate stratagem, to shoe
Pistol, did you pick Master Slender's purse?
On him, her brother, me, her master, hitting
Of the same house Publius and Quintus were,
Have power to bid you welcome. By your leave,
We are but warriors for the working-day;
Of his wings destitute, the army broken,
Did run pure blood: and many lusty Romans
Paris and Troilus, you have both said well,
O sir, we quarrel in print, by the book; as you have
He lessens his requests; and to thee sues
something to do with you. Come, you're a young
Shall I send to thee?
[Within]  An answer from the king, or we will all break in!
She is not well; convey her to  my tent.
And, ere our coming, see thou shake the bags
O piteous spectacle! O bloody times!
She is a virtuous and a reverend lady:
name, the which he hath used so long and never paid
How comes it now, my husband, O, how comes it,
Come, come, the cause: if arguing make us sweat,
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS and SIMPLE
To Poet
And give her as a prey to law and shame,
And these dread curses, like the sun 'gainst glass,
My soul the faithfull'st offerings hath breathed out
Hold your hands,
Where shall be shown you all was found with her;
Thou liest, most ignorant monster: I am in case to
I can tell you; but young Romeo will be older when
Importune him for my moneys; be not ceased
Pardon me, Julius! Here wast thou bay'd, brave hart;
Wisdom! to leave his wife, to leave his babes,
to think!--
Pour'st in the open ulcer of my heart
On this side Tiber; he hath left them you,
Thou never shalt mock Diomed again.
shepherds; I cannot see else how thou shouldst
And that the trunk may be discharged of breath
This passion, and the death of a dear friend, would
O, you say well.
They say, she hath abjured the company
His reasons with his body.
Enter DUKE FREDERICK, with Lords
And then the whole quire hold their hips and laugh,
And, for I am richer than to hang by the walls,
let them coin his nose, let them coin his cheeks:
O! we are spoiled and--yonder he is: deny him,
best lord; I would make thee my lady.
The pretty follies that themselves commit;
Can scarce entreat you to be odd with him.
My lord, you shall o'er-rule my mind for once.
not a Jew eyes? hath not a Jew hands, organs,
Taking advantage of our misery,
I do remember it; and here take my leave,
That still would manage those authorities
Engenders the black toad and adder blue,
Though by the tenor of our strict edict,
To parley or to fight; therefore prepare.
GLOUCESTER and CLARENCE retire
The qualities of people. Come, my queen;
fear the worst oft cures the worse.
And wish he had not so accused her,
In the remembrance of so fair a dream.
Why doth the great Duke Humphrey knit his brows,
Ay, I said so, sir:
Possess it merely. That it should come to this!
As frankly as a pin.
Sirrah, go fetch the beadle hither straight.
To hear me speak his good now?
he will keep out water a great while; and your water
Ay, Timon, and have cause.
To stop all hopes whose growth may damage me.
Thou dost thy office fairly. Turn thee back.
And yet I know him a notorious liar,
Tiber in't; said to be something imperfect in
My sweet ounce of man's flesh! my incony Jew!
'Solus,' egregious dog? O viper vile!
Thou spend'st such high-day wit in praising him.
love thee.
serpents, have
From the corruption of abusing times,
Nay, come, I pray thee, speak; good, good nurse, speak.
Exeunt some with Lord SAY
Exit
And the persuasion of his augurers,
Would fain have come with me to meet your grace,
I must rather give it the rein, for it runs against Hector.
Lingering perdition, worse than any death
That we may hew his limbs, and on a pile
Now lays upon you.
Is there no other way of mercy,
I thank thee: wait on me home, I'll make sport with thee:
could to die before, and he is one of the patterns
DUMB SHOW.
'Tis almost five o'clock, cousin; tis time you were
Your husband's coming hither, woman, with all the
thank you always with my heart, la! with my heart.
Madam?
The knave counterfeits well; a good knave.
Why, sir, my wife is not young.
Which I denying, they fell sick and died;
And, by my two faiths and troths, my lord, I spoke mine.
Hail, royal prince!
Convey me Salisbury into his tent,
But now is Cade driven back, his men dispersed;
Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz:
Alas the day! what shall I do with my doublet and
With most miraculous organ. I'll have these players
More than I seem, and less than I was born to:
Enter KING RICHARD II and Guard
O heavy lightness! serious vanity!
Great nature cries 'Deny not.' let the Volsces
Purpose to answer what thou canst object.
To apply to his bleeding face. Now, heaven help him!
To PERICLES
come under one body's hand.
Varro's
It is a kind of history.
But rather drowzed and hung their eyelids down,
Do overpeer the petty traffickers,
I heard no letter from my master since
To obey in all your daughters' hard commands:
When we are so unsecret to ourselves?
Nor go neither; but you'll lie like dogs and yet say
Than tarry till they push us. Good Volumnius,
commendations to you too: and let me tell you in
Let it suffice thee that I trust thee not.
She sweeps it through the court with troops of ladies,
Now, gods, stand up for bastards!
Posthumus anchors upon Imogen,
corner-stone?
Laden with gold; take that, divide it; fly,
And will again commit them to their bonds,
Courtiers as free, as debonair, unarm'd,
Awakes me all the enrolled penalties
insanie: anne intelligis, domine? to make frantic, lunatic.
Or some enchanted trifle to abuse me,
Fie, fie!
Fie, fie! what, are you mad?
henceforth eat no fish of fortune's buttering.
With the memorials and the things of fame
Knocking within
Whose warlike ears could never brook retreat,
Flourish. Exeunt OCTAVIUS CAESAR and his train
Into strong shudders and to heavenly agues
Till I and my affairs are answered.
Courses as swift as thought in every power,
Protects not us: then why should we be tender
I do excuse you; yea, upon mine honour,
I do beseech you, madam, be content.
He seek the life of any citizen,
I prithee now, my son,
In aid whereof we of the spiritualty
For thy complexion shifts to strange effects,
Must have a stop. O, I could prophesy,
So bad an instrument: his name's Parolles.
purpose as then each bore, upon importance of so
And minister correction to thy fault!
And,--do you mark me, sir?
For lifting food to't? But I will punish home:
Thou say'st his meat was sauced with thy upbraidings:
Since I have entered into these wars.
Unseen, inquisitive, confounds himself:
Set deadly enmity between two friends,
speak one to another; so we seem to know, is to
Sir, to satisfy you in what I have said,
This is his tent; and see where stand his guard.
From me receive that natural competency
ANTIPHOLUS
At the first opening of the gorgeous east,
And state of bodies would bewray what life
And, after many lengthen'd hours of grief,
Infected as her life, she would not live
Why do you stir so early?
abridgement
The current that with gentle murmur glides,
With wealth enough and young and beauteous,
I say, without characters, fame lives long.
Till the disaster that, one mortal night,
These violent delights have violent ends
Love, love, nothing but love, still more!
[Aside]  Heaven give thee moving graces!
he weeps like a wench that had shed her milk: he
The better for him: would I were so too!
Thou runaway, thou coward, art thou fled?
At his return
Millions of mischiefs.
Swooning destruction, or some joy too fine,
favour to you;
Shall we but treason? and indent with fears,
But most it is presumption in us when
Silence, good mother; hear the embassy.
friendship
Would he had!
viol-de-gamboys, and speaks three or four languages
all,--we shall advise this wronged maid to stead up
I am a fool, and full of poverty.
But Antony's hath triumph'd on itself.
I think we are too bold upon your rest:
The French, my lord; men's mouths are full of it:
How now! are the horses ready?
armadoes of caracks to be ballast at her nose.
Be better suited:
To some remote and desert place quite out
There is no wrong, but every thing is right.
Why, then, we are awake: let's follow him
SCENE II. Rome. The house of LEPIDUS.
Look then to be well edified when the fool delivers
When it lies starkly in the traveller's bones:
know him. He hath much land, and fertile: let a
I do remember in this shepherd boy
Kent, on thy life, no more.
Meet me and Gratiano
My lord, old Sir John, with half-a-dozen more, are
Direct not him whose way himself will choose:
To have turn'd my leaping-time into a crutch,
As when, by night and negligence, the fire
To cool this heat, a charm to calm these fits.
See, it stalks away!
My gentle Phebe bid me give you this:
Look, Lucius, here's the book I sought for so;
That were embattailed and rank'd in Kent:
My blood hath been too cold and temperate,
will be like a jack-an-apes also, to burn the
Exit
there is either liquor in his pate or money in his
And with them scourge the bad revolting stars
If his occasion were not virtuous,
Faith, there had been many great men that have
Being pent from liberty, as I am now,
[Snatching it]  Why, what's that to you?
Who, with his shears and measure in his hand,
My lord, because we have business of more moment,
wear their plackets where they should bear their
Bear Worcester to the death and Vernon too:
With his eyes full of anger.
thou seest her before me, commend me.
choose me a husband. O me, the word 'choose!' I may
Then is it likely thou wilt undertake
dial is now upon the prick of noon.
Three times bestrid him; thrice I led him off,
hadst been an ignis fatuus or a ball of wildfire,
Which you deny already: yet we will ask;
Aside to them
in Greek, Latin, and other languages, as the other
Whom I made lord of me and all I had,
I think so too; for never gazed the moon
Thou hast suborn'd the goldsmith to arrest me.
Or have you read or heard? or could you think?
Is in opinion and in honour wrong'd;
That yet we sleep, we dream. Do not you think
on! stir them on!
Being once gangrened, is not then respected
It was, so please your highness.
Which is the Frenchman?
As good cause as one would desire; therefore weep.
And will with all expedience charge on us.
not deliver't?
To knee his throne, and, squire-like; pension beg
May say 'This mercy we have show'd;' the Romans,
If it be so to do good service, never
Enter KING HENRY VIII, reading of a schedule, and LOVELL
Nay, stay, Sir John, awhi le, and we'll debate
And we will both together to the Tower,
That here was at the wrestling?
First let my words stab him, as he hath me.
I fear I am not in my perfect mind.
Enter POLONIUS
Aged sir, hands off.
But in the loss of question,--that you, his sister,
Of our dear souls. Meantime, sweet sister,
And do you now cull out a holiday?
The Duke of Norfolk sends you word by me,
By inch-meal a disease! His spirits hear me
I am nothing: or if not,
Ay, of my pigeons, sir; nothing else.
PAULINA draws a curtain, and discovers HERMIONE standing like a statue
Bishop of Winchester. But know, I come not
And would my father had left me no more!
him but I am heart-burned an hour after.
To all our subjects. Set we forward: let
Exit EDGAR
the death of the king's disease.
A braving war.
Giving a letter
Exit, to the cave
Rivers and Hastings, take each other's hand;
Can bide the beating of so strong a passion
No, not to live. O nation miserable,
prove fools; and I, that am sure I lack thee, may
That you may well perceive I have not wrong'd you,
Have you received no promise of satisfaction at her hands?
In all this presence that hath moved me so.
Bows not his vassal head and strucken blind
What's the matter?
And see my wealthy Andrew dock'd in sand,
My son corrupts a well-derived nature
They say Edgar, his banished son, is with the Earl
make merry withal?
For which we lose our heads to gild his horns.
Meaning to keep her closely at my cell,
Nor can my tongue unload my heart's great burthen;
Did shake down mellow fruit.
Or Cassio him, or each do kill the other,
I must to him too,
My prayers to heaven for you, my loyalty,
Had nature lent thee but thy mother's look,
That, when the exigent should come, which now
A whoreson mad fellow's it was: whose do you think it was?
He hangs the lip at something: you know all, Lord Pandarus.
Than can yourself yourself in twain divide:
Save how to gall and pinch this Bolingbroke:
The moon into salt tears: the earth's a thief,
Looking for Antony. But all the charms of love,
By faith and honour,
counterfeit assurance: take you assurance of her,
Exit
Than Edward will for tidings of my death.
Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek
Where I may think the remnant of my thoughts
Heaven make thee free of it! I follow thee.
Rather to show a noble grace to both parts
In nature's infinite book of secrecy
The ears are senseless that should give us hearing,
My house, mine honour, yea, my life, be thine,
That judge hath made me guardian to this boy:
meeting may be wished, God prohibit it! Come, neighbour.
Since then my office hath so far prevail'd
The spouse of any noble gentleman.
You are my father too, and did relieve me,
But kindness, nobler ever than revenge,
O traitor Diomed! turn thy false face, thou traitor,
We'll light upon some settled low content.
I well might hear, delivered with a groan,
He would receive it? he and his physicians
careful man and a great scholar. The competitors enter.
His soul thou canst not have; therefore be gone.
Pray, sir, be patient.
have often noted in thy company, but I know not his name.
That in himself which he spurs on his power
And, being troubled with a raging tooth,
To see perform'd the dreaded act which thou
To appoint myself in this vexation, sully
your worship well; God restore you to health! I
Say I love Brutus, and I honour him;
ANTIPHOLUS
Glad that you thus continue your resolve
This trick may chance to scathe you, I know what:
yourself? Why, do you not perceive the jest?
For no dislike i' the world against the person
Methinks I see these things with parted eye,
down; my husband will come into the chamber.
Can no way change you to a milder form,
Do as I bid you; shut doors after you:
I charge you see that he be forthcoming.
Does he rake this together! Now, my lords,
Why, this is the very same; the very hand, the very
Masters, lay down your weapons.
me, and by all pretty oaths that are not dangerous,
cause, and be silent, that you may hear: believe me
Burn itself out. If Edgar live, O, bless him!
so, I cannot reprove it; and wise, but for loving
Call me but love, and I'll be new baptized;
But there's no remedy.
Let us into the city presently
And to the skirts of this wild wood he came;
This would drink deep.
chaste as Diana, unless I be obtained by the manner
ANTIPHOLUS
I heard thee say even now, thou likedst not that,
Exit CLAUDIO
But all be buried in his gravity.
Were I the general, thou shouldst have my office
ANTIPHOLUS
That thou, residing here, go'st yet with me,
In eye of Caesar's battle; from which place
Why, what's the matter?
When must he die?
No, Pandarus: I stalk about her door,
daughters, and leave his horns without a case.
Marcus, even thou hast struck upon my crest,
Call me before the exactest auditors
That sort was well fished for.
While one would wink; denied me mine own purse,
Gripe not at earthly joys as erst they did;
I will knead him; I'll make him supple.
Enter JULIET
Calpurnia's cheek is pale; and Cicero
Away, you three-inch fool! I am no beast.
Why, very well, then; I hope here be truths.
And will not palter? and what other oath
All together here
his bargain; for he was never yet a breaker of
I will overglance the superscript: 'To the
And, vanquish'd as I am, I yield to thee,
doth not the appetite alter? a man loves the meat
She's gone. I am abused; and my relief
The colour of the king doth come and go
Gertrude, do not drink.
Beseech you, sir, to spare me, till I may
on him? I think the best way were to entertain him
coxcomb, is it meet, think you, that we should also,
For lying so, Hermia, I do not lie.
Rather proclaim it, Westmoreland, through my host,
To see my tears and hear my deep-fet groans.
Enter EDGAR and GLOUCESTER
Who crown'd the gracious duke in high despite,
How to live better. For your stubborn answer
Nay, my lord, he called you Jack, and said he would
A mother and a mistress and a friend,
I know it;
if I were as tedious as a king, I could find it in
'Tis like the forced gait of a shuffling nag.
And jewels, two stones, two rich and precious stones,
Either to die the death or to abjure
Witness this wretched stump, witness these crimson lines;
I'll to dinner.
I am your spaniel; and, Demetrius,
And till the tears that she hath shed for thee
Are they not Athenians?
He--to give fear to use and liberty,
Quite from the flight of all thy ancestors.
My husband, then?
Why, wherefore ask you this?
Then hast thou all again. Poor lord! is't I
I'll wrestle with you in my strength of love:
They have left their viands behind; for we have stomachs.
When your young nephew Titus lost his leg:
'Tis just the fashion: wherefore do you look
Hound or spaniel, brach or lym,
How now! what news with you?
Kind gods, forgive me that, and prosper him!
More venturous or desperate than this.
Little Helen, farewell; if I can remember thee, I
And young affection gapes to be his heir;
My figured goblets for a dish of wood,
we bring him to our own tents. Be but your lordship
I have a speech of fire, that fain would blaze,
It were well
speak a good word to Mistress Anne Page for my
May one be pardon'd and retain the offence?
Dexterously, good madonna.
What's your affair I pray you?
But, gentle friend, for love and courtesy
When from St. Alban's we do make return,
I shall hereafter, my thrice gracious lord,
Grey of Northumberland, this same is yours:
Full often, like a shag-hair'd crafty kern,
In a wall'd prison, packs and sects of great ones,
Exeunt all but Antipholus of Syracuse and Dromio of Syracuse
straggling soldiers with great quantity: 'tis said
My lord, there's an army gathered together in
Under my poor instructions yet must suffer
good boy, by the Lord, so they call me, and when I
And left me in reputeless banishment,
Sir, sir,--
It's heaven's will:
Mend when thou canst; be better at thy leisure:
I will attend my husband, be his nurse,
Of this man to be vex'd?
Finds bottom in the uncomprehensive deeps,
ACT II
To tell me how he takes it. Fare you well:
hunts, but one that fills up the cry. My money is
The Greeks are strong and skilful to their strength,
My fancy to your eyes: when I consider
rheum: therefore is it most expedient for the
O, what men dare do! what men may do! what men daily
And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
Alarum. Exeunt
At Priam's royal table do I sit;
Anon, from thy insulting tyranny,
Why didst thou say, of late thou wert despised?
Since riches point to misery and contempt?
Peace be with Burgundy!
with the duke; what his valour, honesty, and
him on, and it takes him off; it persuades him,
I'll never tell you.
This breast from harbouring foul deceitful thoughts.
If beauty have a soul, this is not she;
innocence, which seems much, to justify him, but a
o'er, should undo a man? Some say the bee stings:
By my soul, nor I:
How fares the prince?
Away with him!
I may have welcome 'mongst the rest that woo
They fight, and all enter the city
Thus in a chapel lying! Come off, come off:
The view of earthly glory: men might say,
Nay, then, thus:
What men provided, what munition sent,
I'll entertain the offer'd fallacy.
It were a fault to snatch words from my tongue.
'A staff is quickly found to beat a dog.'
Whose heir my father was, and I am his.
And what's to come of my despised time
for him have I offended. I pause for a reply.
Enter LYSANDER and HERMIA
'scape.
But much of grief shows still some want of wit.
Plies Desdemona to repair his fortunes
This man said, sir, that Don John, the prince's
Alas, poor lady, desolate and left!
Bruised underneath the yoke of tyranny,
Thou concludest like the sanctimonious pirate, that
Guess at her years, I prithee.
His wife, an't like your worship.
O, I am ignorance itself in this!
This flower's force in stirring love.
To wish myself much better; yet, for you
Yes, yes; the lines are very quaintly writ;
Made tame and most familiar to my nature,
Thou hast the sweetest face I ever look'd on.
Exit
Not so; but yet so false that he grieves my very
when our throats are cut, he may be ransomed, and we
Which gently laid my knighthood on my shoulder,
Why, universal plodding poisons up
Is't lost? is't gone? speak, is it out
[Rising]  Never, Regan:
I thank you: I am not of many words, but I thank
And wash this filthy witness from your hand.
warm them. Now, were not I a little pot and soon
By being seldom seen, I could not stir
With a thief to the gallows, for though he go as
Parts from this finger, then parts life from hence:
To FABIAN
With all licentious measure, making your wills
Hark, hark! I hear
From bogs, fens, flats, on Prosper fall and make him
There shalt thou find the mariners asleep
But, tell me, where is princely Richmond now?
If the good truth were known.
But tell not me; I know, Antonio
If she refuse me: and from hence I go,
Neighbours, you are tedious.
The good I stand on is my truth and honesty:
Your highness came to England, so will I
youth to an answer. I think oxen and wainropes
And all the wealthy kingdoms of the west,
Contemning Rome, he has done all this, and more,
Enter SILVIA above
You are the hare of whom the proverb goes,
In censure of his seeming.
your grace
Exit
I will be bitter with him and passing short.
It appears not in this confession: there's not one
So near our public court as twenty miles,
throat cut like a calf.
Ill, when you talk of war.
I would not be thy executioner:
As freely, son, as God did give her me.
Meet I an infant of the house of York,
Further than he is Caesar.
Ay, good brother, or go about to think.
That he is borne about invisible:
Which by the interpretation of full time
My gracious lord, I tender you my service,
[Aside to PROSPERO]          Was't well done?
Hath placed thy beauty's image and thy virtue.
Nay, my good soldier, up;
So, if the issue of the elder son
These English woes will make me smile in France.
[Advancing]  Welcome, good Robin.
Go fetch it, sister.
Shall give a holiness, a purity,
A madman's mercy bade thee run away.
there rust, and let me die.
The kindred of the queen, must die at Pomfret.
For let the gods so speed me as I love
Nay, he can make obligations, and write court-hand.
To hide us from pursuit that will be made
That is the word. I thee defy again.
anew: but I must attend his majesty's command, to
And am right sorry to repeat what follows
And to transport him in the mind he is
To SILVIUS
In my just censure, in my true opinion!
And makest an oath the surety for thy truth
Well I will arm me, being thus forewarn'd:
good to thee.
Though he be as good a gentleman as the devil is, as
at: for if, look you, he were my brother, I would
bequeathed me by will but poor a thousand crowns,
Read over Julia's heart, thy first best love,
May then make all the claim that Arthur did.
And therefore frolic: we will hence forthwith,
Meet and ne'er part till one drop down a corse.
For then she could stand alone; nay, by the rood,
The people 'twixt Philippi and this ground
Was ever son so rued a father's death?
How! bribe me?
But few,
Let it alone; my state now will but mock me.
Re-enter three Citizens more
What should I do with him? dress him in my apparel
O thou damnable fellow! Did not I pluck thee by the
I' the midst o' the body, idle and unactive,
A notable lubber, as thou reportest him to be.
Of sun and moon, and that the affrighted globe
Do we not likewise see our learning there?
Contract us 'fore these witnesses.
My master, and my lord!
More than I love these eyes, more than my life,
Gone, my good lord.
And in their barks my thoughts I'll character;
Come, Friar Francis, be brief; only to the plain
Methinks it sounds much sweeter than by day.
Therefore he hates me.
When it should move you to attend me most,
Do so, and bid my sweet prepare to chide.
Enter SPEED
My lord and master loves you: O, such love
As one come not within another's way.
Exit SNOUT
It was a handkerchief, an antique token
Cold statues of the youth, and, in a word,
I cannot reach so high.
I thank you, sir,
You are a fool; go to.
But make amends now: get you gone,
You all do know this mantle: I remember
Wast shot at with fair eyes, to be the mark
He came too late, the ship was under sail:
but he'll be meet with you, I doubt it not.
Repeat their semblance often on the seas,
measure, full of state and ancientry; and then comes
Thou most lying slave,
No, they cannot touch me for coining; I am the
That the magnifico is much beloved,
In number more than ever women spoke,
A very valiant rebel of the name.
'If,' quoth he, 'I for this had been committed,
sweet instruments hung up in cases that keep their
'Stroy'd in dishonour.
man with wishing, therefore I will die a woman with grieving.
Say, Katharine Queen of England, come into the court.
Grossly grew captive to his honey words
Therefore stay yet; thou need'st not to be gone.
I warrant you, sir, let me alone.
Caesar, I never stood on ceremonies,
Could out of thee extract one spark of evil
Casca, by your voice.
Is Antony or we in fault for this?
Such have but a shadow's bliss:
Noble patricians, patrons of my right,
If there be any pody in the house, and in the
To Adriana! that is where we dined,
you.
He came with flowers to strew his lady's grave;
upon him, for my business seethes.
This day should Clarence closely be mew'd up,
She hears herself.
The duke is virtuous, mild and too well given
I'll to him; he is hid at Laurence' cell.
That thinks with oaths to face the matter out.
Why rail'st thou on thy birth, the heaven, and earth?
An't please your honour, players
Whose glorious deeds, but in these fields of late,
knocked about the mazzard with a sexton's spade:
Exeunt soldiers
Sir, I hear you are a scholar,--I will be brief
The worst of all her scholars, my good lord.
Or go to bed now, being two hours to day:
We attend his lordship; pray, signify so much.
Of all say'd yet, mayst thou prove prosperous!
To curb those raging appetites that are
been the finder out of this secret, it would not
Fair lords, your fortunes are alike in all,
Then this is mine opinion: that King Lewis
Here comes the Duke of York.
How came these things to pass?
tongue shakes out his master's undoing: to say
That you might see your shadow. I have heard,
This hand should chop it off, and with the
And left me bare to weather.
issues, being foolish, do not derogate.
As with foul incest to abuse your soul;
Even there where merchants most do congregate,
They did, Fluellen.
Would they speak with me?
How dares thy harsh rude tongue sound this unpleasing news?
Enter, PERICLES and SIMONIDES at one door, with  Attendants; a Messenger meets them, kneels, and  gives PERICLES a letter: PERICLES shows it  SIMONIDES; the Lords kneel to him. Then enter  THAISA with child, with LYCHORIDA a nurse. The  KING shows her the letter; she rejoices: she and  PERICLES takes leave of her father, and depart with  LYCHORIDA and their Attendants. Then exeunt SIMONIDES and the rest
With slight denial, nor then silenced when--
But, cousin, what if we assay'd to steal
I am glad
Stepp'd before larges of proof, cannot be found:
And over the chair of state, where now he sits,
He shall not breathe infection in this air
This, as you say, suggested
Beguiled me to the very heart of loss.
And sometimes falling ones.
Had I brought hither a corrupted mind,
But he will not entreat his son for us.
And then you would have tarried. Hark!
And yet no matter: why should we go in?
Withdraw you hence, my lord, I'll follow you.
Repent but you that you shall lose your friend,
Disorder, that hath spoil'd us, friend us now!
Therefore depart and leave him here with me.
Adieu, till then; then, fail not. You have won
torment thee, and still thou livedst but as a
It pleased them to think me worthy of Pompion the
Give me some help.
Though light, take pieces for the figure's sake:
A dearer merit, not so deep a maim
To have the touches dearest prized.
Here shall they make their ransom on the sand,
Will it serve for any model to build mischief on?
And give her to young Claudio.
her brother thus? I am sure care's an enemy to life.
your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't; it hath
coach-fellow Nym; or else you had looked through
his events, with a prayer they may prove prosperous;
think I'll fear thee as I fear thy father? nay, an
accidentally to encounter you: you have ended my
Sings
Re-enter QUINCE
Kate of Kate Hall, my super-dainty Kate,
Swear me to this, and I will ne'er say no.
A knave teach me my duty!
Whence, driven before the winds, he is arrived
Enter HERO, MARGARET, and URSULA
Wit would be out of fashion.
The diamonds of a most praised water
I'll try whether my old wit be in request
So all.
Because authority, though it err like others,
Full of rose-water and bestrew'd with flowers,
All form is formless, order orderless,
'You shall demand of him, whether one Captain Dumain
Write from it, if you can, in hand or phrase;
Have suffer'd like a girl: yet thou dost look
I'll fetch them, sir.
[Singing]  The poor soul sat sighing by a sycamore tree,
I go, my lord.
More like a soldier than a man o' the church,
O slaves, I can tell you news,-- news, you rascals!
give you good rest!'
upon the exploit themselves; which they shall have
Which overshades the mouth of that same pit
I bear Antonio, that I follow thus
But if thou scorn our courtesy, thou diest.
I am your neighbour, and was suitor first.
Sorrow concealed, like an oven stopp'd,
Which his triumphant father's hand had won;
Set your heart at rest:
Being strong on both sides, are equivocal:
Patricians and plebeians, we create
To you that choked it. Let be call'd before us
Put strength enough to't.
That I may prompt them: and of such as have,
To KING OF FRANCE
The duke, my husband and my children both,
Without more wider and more overt test
Philip of France, on peril of a curse,
Injurious Hermia! most ungrateful maid!
Not yet thou knowest me, and, seeing me, dost not
[Seeing BIONDELLO]
For, I protest, we are well fortified
O gentle Aaron, we are all undone!
Richard!
Successful in the battles that he fights,
his eye; talks like a knell, and his hum is a
Clarence and Somerset both gone to Warwick!
Come hither, neighbour Seacole. God hath blessed
why, that's nothing; an he begin once, he'll rail in
Who, the Lord Timon? he is my very good friend, and
The one is Caius Lucius.
To be imprison'd in the viewless winds,
Shall be the general's fault, though he perform
The courage of a woman; less noble mind
How dost thou know that, constable?
craftily qualified too, and, behold, what innovation
A cell of ignorance; travelling a-bed;
wolf in greediness, dog in madness, lion in prey.
Look to the lady.
ask you a question. Man is enemy to virginity; how
Who having pinch'd a few and made them cry,
And craves your company for speedy counsel.
A contagious breath.
I pray you, be not angry with me, madam,
And wheresoe'er he is, he's surely dead.
Or else this blow should broach thy dearest blood.
Then leave me not, my lords; be resolute;
The whitest virtue strikes. What king so strong
And an adopted name of privilege,
By me that's said or done amiss this night;
name out of his heart, and turn him going.
Which with the heart there cools and ne'er returneth
Who then? his spirit?
red-faced; by the means whereof a' faces it out, but
We must forbear: here comes the gentleman,
Sweet lords, entreat her hear me but a word.
Where have you this? 'tis false.
Will you make me believe that I am not sent for you?
that we may yet again have access to our fair
Audacious cruelty. If that the king
Domestic awe, night-rest, and neighbourhood,
To loss and what may follow! Weep I cannot,
I'll be with you at your sheep-shearing too: if I
And what was he?
another: you jig, you amble, and you lisp, and
Yours; whom in constancy you think stands so safe.
Come, we are fellows and friends: he was ever too
Exeunt
Which we disdain should tatter us, yet sought
That did never choose amiss.
To slay your sovereign and destroy the realm.
So thou mayst say, the king lies by a beggar, if a
I warrant you, that man is not alive
Enter the Lord Mayor and Citizens
By how much unexpected, by so much
Most honour'd Cleon, I must needs be gone;
I fly thee, for I would not injure thee.
To lose thy youth in peace, and to achieve
Of Tybalt deaf to peace, but that he tilts
Master, Sir Thurio frowns on you.
This night the siege assuredly I'll raise:
Prithee, good Griffith, tell me how he died:
'Twould braid yourself too near for me to tell it.
Will so your accusation overweigh,
That feelingly persuade me what I am.'
and too much too.
And to the coffers of the king beside,
To him that hath more cause to be a mourner,
That leaves the print of blood where'er it walks.
Thy loss is more than can thy portage quit,
The worse to her, the better loved of me.
And therefore take this compact of a truce,
And on a love-book pray for my success?
That hath made him mad.
It was. What sadness lengthens Romeo's hours?
Dies in the zeal of that which it presents:
O wonderful, wonderful, and most wonderful
My ears are stopt and cannot hear good news,
Draws a knife
Can Helenus fight, uncle?
Shall break the locks
Why to give over, I pray you? is it a shame to get
Give him direction for this merry bond,
I crave fit disposition for my wife.
DON
Then this remains, that we divide our power.
methinks there would be no period to the jest,
As thou art match'd withal and grafted to,
ANTIPHOLUS
in simple time; I cannot: but I love thee; none
At difference in thee: out of that I'll work
Here, youth, there is my purse; I give thee this
news on the Rialto? Who is he comes here?
I here resign my government to thee,
but on one side, breaks his staff like a noble
'Tis thought, my lord, that you took bribes of France,
Be with my hopes abroad. I should be still
Come, some music!
Though in thy youth thou wast as true a lover
If a hart do lack a hind,
Enter OTHELLO and EMILIA
Now might I do it pat, now he is praying;
Enter TROILUS
Which I have sworn to weed and pluck away.
But I will have my lord and you again
O my dear mother, do I see you living?
Would they strip from us; being valued thus:
Hath been but for a wayward son,
hold the laying in--he will last you some eight year
Thine eyes, sweet lady, have infected mine.
I am as like to call thee so again,
Why, then let's home again. Come, sirrah, let's away.
Likely in time to bless a regal throne.
tumbles, driving the poor fry before him, and at
How? unlawfully?
Is it my fault that I was Geffrey's son?
And better in my mind not undertook.
And it hath pleased him that three times to-day
What, wilt thou flout me thus unto my face,
cannot, give thanks you have lived so long, and make
An't please your grace, Sir Thomas Bullen's daughter--
Madam, my former suit: I do beseech you
Giving the crown
The green leaves quiver with the cooling wind
Beauty provoketh thieves sooner than gold.
Will you cover then, sir?
Thy foot to England's throne; and therefore mark.
Beshrew me, sir, but if he make this good,
But seek revenge on Edward's mockery.
Why, sir, cobble you.
yours: cloth o' gold, and cuts, and laced with
Be season'd with such viands? You will answer
In liberty of bloody hand shall range
He hears with ears.
Will fall some blessing to this land, which shall
If heaven would make me such another world
Or with some dram conjured to this effect,
To choose you a queen: she shall not be so young
Good morrow, neighbour Baptista.
Is Bushy, Green, and the Earl of Wiltshire dead?
That fears a painted devil. If he do bleed,
'Conscience,' say I, 'you counsel well;' ' Fiend,'
To steal his sweet and honey'd sentences;
Having determined of the Volsces and
And floating straight, obedient to the stream,
O monstrous act!
could behold the sun with as firm eyes as he.
Than priests and fanes that lie.
Go, give 'em welcome; you can speak the French tongue;
Ah, thou spell! Avaunt!
My fault, but not my body, pardon, sovereign.
And then to speak.
What was his answer?
Enter some, bringing forward the Clerk of Chatham
Was he mad, sir?
There I shall see mine own figure.
Noble tribunes,
Thou say'st the king grows mad; I'll tell thee, friend,
And understand again like honest men;
Jack Cade proclaims himself Lord Mortimer,
it in practise. Be cunning in the working this, and
him. I do invite you to-morrow morning to my house
Your children yet unborn and unbegot,
By mine honesty,
Advocate's the court-word for a pheasant: say you
I was adopted heir by his consent:
But what serve for the thunder?--Precious villain!
I will not be afraid of death and bane,
My country's high pyramides my gibbet,
Will ye be gone?
My body round engirt with misery,
My fortunes were more able to relieve her;
Come, sir, dispatch. If thou couldst, doctor, cast
Even to my wish: I have a letter from her
Exeunt
The letter was not nice but full of charge
So long as I am loyal, true and crimeless.
years? Wherein is he good, but to taste sack and
Be bold you do so grow in my requital
To thrust the lie unto him.
shoe is my father: no, this left shoe is my father:
Fond done, done fond,
Is still at Tarsus, where each man
Fall fellowly drops. The charm dissolves apace,
He's hearing of a cause; he will come straight
ACT IV
Not altogether so:
hast not slept to-night? would he not, a naughty
O tremble, for you hear the lion roar.
In such a night as this! O Regan, Goneril!
The spoons will be the bigger, sir. There is a
Either to be restored to my blood,
By the heart's still rhetoric disclosed with eyes,
And, sure, those men are happy that shall have 'em.
I do invest you jointly with my power,
[Reads]  'I will waylay thee going home; where if it
And one day in a week to touch no food
To cease! Wast thou ordain'd, dear father,
villages, nothing taken but paid for, none of the
[Within]  Mother, mother, mother!
no more of his purchases, and double ones too, than
A brother's dead love, which she would keep fresh
Would I not have; but nature should bring forth,
what hacks are on his helmet! look you yonder, do
Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
A saucy roughness, and constrains the garb
Calls her a nonpareil: I never saw a woman,
welcome. I had rather be a beggar's dog than Apemantus.
I have one myself,
No, marry; I fear thee!
Her to her chamber, that 'tis impossible.
And browner than her brother.' Are not you
Nay, but hear me.
So do you, good master doctor.
Indeed, indeed, sirs, but this troubles me.
Be noble to myself: but, hark thee, Charmian.
For, if you should, O, what would come of it!
The common muck of the world: he covets less
o' th' ear: or if I can see my glove in his cap,
Enter three or four Conspirators of AUFIDIUS' faction
Presuming on an ague's privilege,
Three thousand ducats; well.
thee: yet for the outside of thy poverty we must
The tenor of them doth but signify
Alarum. Enter an English Soldier, crying 'A  Talbot! a Talbot!' They fly, leaving their clothes behind
Enter PHILEMON
When I first moved you.
Exit
Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds,
Within his tent; but ill disposed, my lord.
The jewel that we find, we stoop and take't
a fair pair of heels and run from it?
A queen in jest, only to fill the scene.
And, in faith, my lord, I spoke mine.
And be inheritor of thy desire.
Exeunt SUFFOLK and WARWICK
An empty casket, where the jewel of life
'I am yours for ever.'
What then he said, so he unsay it now.
Pray you, sir, how much carnation ribbon may a man
Any annoyance in that precious sense!
Is sad to think upon his merchandise.
Him I forgive my death that killeth me
My daughter shall be Henry's, if he please.
Displace our heads where--thank the gods!--they grow,
Exit GLOUCESTER
here in the forest on the duke your father.
Exit ROBIN
wills. If the balance of our lives had not one
Once, sir? there was nothing done to her once.
Come on; there is sixpence for you: let's have a song.
That then I lost for thee, now grant me justice.
If you refuse it,--as, in love and zeal,
To amplify too much, would make much more,
Could neither graze nor pierce?
Because, my lord, we would have had you heard
Believe me, love, it was the nightingale.
And try the argument of hearts by borrowing,
Is she not passing fair?
Enter DEMETRIUS, HELENA, following him
What dost thou know me for?
And art thou yet to thy own soul so blind,
The thing whereat it trembles by surmise;
Or, with the rest, where is your darling Rutland?
Still and contemplative in living art.
Not mutinous in peace, yet bold in war;
You are amazed, my liege, at her exclaim:
For ever and a day.
Upon the altar at Saint Edmundsbury;
Not cast aside so soon.
Now, by my sword, I will kill all his coats;
May show her duty and make known her love?'
Art turn'd the greatest liar.
For ever, and for ever, farewell, Brutus!
Macbeth.
Do you wish then that the gods had made me poetical?
Whip him. Were't twenty of the greatest tributaries
The clerk of Chatham: he can write and read and
troth, we that have good wits have much to answer
strange guest he has here.
Forgive me in thine own particular;
These letters at fit time deliver me
The very bottom and the soul of hope,
Exit Gentleman
There, at your meet'st advantage of the time,
Confess 'twas hers, and by what rough enforcement
When in a wood of Crete they bay'd the bear
Here is the sister of the man condemn'd
write God first; for God defend but God should go
Now, fellows, you are welcome.
All fortune to the good Simonides!
From sun to sun: there is my honour's pawn;
He shall not live.
Enter TALBOT, BEDFORD, BURGUNDY, and Forces, with scaling-ladders, their drums beating a dead march
Were not erected by their hands from whom
Welcome, then.
Exeunt guard with MARGARET JOURDAIN, SOUTHWELL,  and c
Look to't, I charge you: come your ways.
Men's prayers then would seek you, not their fears.
I am not well: send the deed after me,
Be eloquent in my behalf to her.
Striking him
You shout me forth
When that this body did contain a spirit,
Exeunt
There is cold meat i' the cave; we'll browse on that,
Marry, to say she came to seek you there. You shall
Enter DUKE SOLINUS, AEGEON, Gaoler, Officers, and other Attendants
I say, by sorcery he got this isle;
sometimes, leaving the fear of God on the left hand
This seeming brow of justice, did he win
I shall never begin if I hold my peace.
Shake my fell purpose, nor keep peace between
I prithee, do not hold me to mine oath;
Faster than thought or time.
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
'Tis true, my brother's daughter's queen of Tunis;
doth bear the yoke.'
She takes the staff in her mouth, and guides it with her stumps, and writes
Changed to a worser shape thou canst not be.
Though it be honest, it is never good
And in this vow do chain my soul to thine!
Bastards and all.
New hatch'd to the woeful time: the obscure bird
Alarum as in battle. Enter, from opposite sides, MARCIUS and AUFIDIUS
Even or odd, of all days in the year,
'I would be consul,' says he: 'aged custom,
With clog of conscience and sour melancholy
Is this great Agamemnon's tent, I pray you?
What God will have discover'd for revenge;
peaceable reign and good government.
Speak less than thou knowest,
And sail so expeditious that shall catch
again such preposterous discoveries!
And hearten those that fight in your defence:
[Aside]  Shot, by heaven! Proceed, sweet Cupid:
Go about it.
To bid the father wipe his eyes withal,
And sometime lurk I in a gossip's bowl,
For so you shall be, while you are a man;
But give thyself unto my sick desires,
Marcus Octavius, Marcus Justeius,
PROLOGUE
The seeming sufferances that you had borne,
Prepare thy brow to frown: know'st
Make that good.
In thy tail!
Is not this well? Come, my sweet Kate:
Against your sacred person, in God's name,
And now I cloy me with beholding it.
To know your royal pleasure.
To stranger blood, to foreign royalty.
Dreaming on both; for all thy blessed youth
Exeunt PRINCESS and train
So, Bassianus, you have play'd your prize:
Enter a Messenger
I hope it remains not unkindly with your lordship
How now, my lords!
The trumpet sounds: be mask'd; the maskers come.
Clapper-de-claw! vat is dat?
Not yet mature, yet matchless, firm of word,
I thank thee; and I pray thee, once to-night
Will't please you hear me?
Why, this is like the mending of highways
Hath yielded up his body to the grave;
Why, this is lunatics! this is mad as a mad dog!
SCENE III. The plains near Rouen.
Inclinable to honour and advance
Will you go see her?
Have in our armours watch'd the winter's night,
Knowing him is enough. On's bed of death
Might in thy palace perish Margaret.
Is but the vain breath of a common man:
That noseless, handless, hack'd and chipp'd, come to him,
Summon a parley; we will talk with him.
During whose reign the Percies of the north,
your monster, and the devil take your fingers!
There's no hope she will return. I'll swear
May give you thankful sacrifice.
of winter's sisterhood kisses not more religiously;
Leave thy drink and thy whore,
cousin Shallow.
Thump! then see thou thump thy master well.
Not now.
Since every worth in show commends itself.
Of the dreamer Merlin and his prophecies,
That I might so have rated my expense,
And fair purgation to the world, than malice,
But rather to beget more love in you:
Strange images of death. As thick as hail
Go to the king; and let there be impawn'd
For his right noble mind, illustrious virtue
Thy bed, lust-stain'd, shall with lust's blood be spotted.
thou think I  care for a satire or an epigram? No:
Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good.
No, here it is.
Why, I have lost him too.
How do you, madam? how do you, my good lady?
This is strange.
Mingled his royalty with capering fools,
My husband!
More sinn'd against than sinning.
I do beseech you, give him leave to go.
And that you'ld guide me to your sovereign's court,
And choke your good to come; for his possessions,
That's likewise part of my intelligence; but, I
I will fetch him.
The anvil of my sword, and do contest
A whole one, I.
Draw that thy honest sword, which thou hast worn
This ring was mine; I gave it his first wife.
Stanley, look to your wife; if she convey
O Clifford, but bethink thee once again,
An alarum: excursions. Enter FASTOLFE and a Captain
See where she comes.
No, not the hangman's axe, bear half the keenness
husband is seldom from home; but she hopes there
As when they are fresh.
it shines every where. I would be sorry, sir, but
And yours as blunt as the fencer's foils, which hit,
Breathes out of her: she hath not been entranced
Call Coriolanus.
This gentle and unforced accord of Hamlet
dog's-leather of.
With dreadful pomp of stout invasion!
Fie on thee, jolt-head! thou canst not read.
not there for the goose.
all, it is impossible. My lords, Saint Alban here
For, by my soul, were there worse end than death,
Ah, countrymen! if when you make your prayers,
Do not deny to him that you love me.
With the love-juice, as I did bid thee do?
faith, for seventeen poniards are at thy bosom.
Lives not to act another. Be satisfied;
To mask thy monstrous visage? Seek none, conspiracy;
Well pray you, father.
So, at his sight, away his fellows fly;
Being counted falsehood, shall, as I express it,
Exeunt all except APEMANTUS
Was nursed with Cleon; who at fourteen years
Would they were blanks, rather than fill'd with me!
He should have worn the horns on his head.
Were full as lovely as is this of hers:
Above the border of this horizon,
My love to thee is sound, sans crack or flaw.
His countenance for the battle; which being done,
The regent conquers, and the Frenchmen fly.
Flourish
What halloing and what stir is this to-day?
Never till then.
'Tell him,' quoth she, 'my mourning weeds are done,
Exeunt CLEOMENES and others
ACT IV
Hie therefore, Robin, overcast the night;
is done. Now, a song.
graces be in one woman, one woman shall not come in
I was, unhandsome warrior as I am,
One that speaks thus their voice?
And therefore cannot have the hearts to do it.
I pray thee, stay with us; go not to Wittenberg.
That flies her fortune when it follows her.
Be advised;
Albeit he comes on angry purpose now;
And could of men distinguish, her election
This, general joy.
Crystal is muddy. O, how ripe in show
Farewell, sweet playfellow: pray thou for us;
What is granted them?
Or else by him my love deny,
If sad and merry madness equal be.
Yare, yare, good Iras; quick. Methinks I hear
For in a quarrel since I came ashore
She hath not seen the change of fourteen years,
Here's packing, with a witness to deceive us all!
If we and Caius Marcius chance to meet,
'T has been a turbulent and stormy night.
With this thin helm? Mine enemy's dog,
And you.
this pipe?
Being all this time abandon'd from your bed.
He loves you, on my life, and holds you dear
Who wrongs him?
And fly with me to Cressid!
Shall I lay perjury upon my soul?
I would not hear your enemy say so,
A heaven on earth I have won by wooing thee.
And so should these, if I might have my will.
I would invent as bitter-searching terms,
I thought, at least, he would have said the king;
An if she do, I would I were an eunuch.
Nor I nor any man that but man is
Richard cried 'Charge! and give no foot of ground!'
So, look about you: know you any here?
Exeunt SIR TOBY BELCH, FABIAN, and MARIA
There then; how then? what then? Let me see wherein
Of regular justice in your city's bounds,
Knock me down with 'em: cleave me to the girdle.
loss! the thief gone with so much, and so much to
Nay, let her languish
For that which thou hast sworn to do amiss
His sparking eyes, replete with wrathful fire,
Come, sir, it wants a twelvemonth and a day,
Peace, sirrah!
The general were put in mind of it.
Our lodgings, standing bleak upon the sea,
I like that well: nay, how absolute she's in't,
His fault concludes but what the law should end,
with Polixenes, king of Bohemia, and conspiring
At such a time, with all the rest retold,
For the only she; and--pauca, there's enough. Go to.
Now entertain conjecture of a time
Shall I speak ill of him that is my husband?
I was advertised their great general slept,
restrained, captivated, bound.
Wherein? and what taxation? My lord cardinal,
A most ridiculous monster, to make a wonder of a
The French exclaim'd, the devil was in arms;
No, by mine honour, madam.
If it be not, forswear't: howe'er, I charge thee,
the lime of good neighbours. If a man do not erect
As if there were some monster in his thought
Temptations have since then been born to's; for
The count is neither sad, nor sick, nor merry, nor
I love thee not.
To the succession of new days this month:
While all is shared and all is borne away,
Cordelia leaves you: I know you what you are;
But Valentine, if he be ta'en, must die.
And whosoe'er gainsays King Edward's right,
dog--Oh! the dog is me, and I am myself; ay, so,
'Faith, they listened to me as they would have
Is now a widower.
May yet ere night yield both my life and them
Fame answering the most strange inquire,
I have engaged myself to a dear friend,
At last, with easy roads, he came to Leicester,
Enter two Senators and Tribunes
Hath publish'd and proclaim'd it openly:
That numberless upon me stuck as leaves
Will answer our hope in issue of a king;
For first he was contract to Lady Lucy--
shoulder-blade is out.
His weary joints would gladly rise, I know;
You break not sanctuary in seizing him.
And am most sensible in grief for it,
And so far blameless proves my enterprise,
Than I stand debted to this gentleman:
He attends your highness' pleasure.
Cambio is changed into Lucentio.
Let me see.
From those that she calls servants or from mine?
My lord,
Are glad and fain by flight to save themselves.
forget their faults, I drink to you.
Thrown such despite and heavy terms upon her,
It honour'd him.
for a search, and away went I for foul clothes. But
What know I how the world may deem of me?
Great happiness!
Cannot pick out five such, take each one in his vein.
So hath your highness; never king of England
Then you lost
Alencon! that notorious Machiavel!
Which else no worldly good should draw from me.
Whispers with BLANCH
Sprung from the rancorous outrage of your duke
May be the amorous count solicits her
To the majestic cedar join'd, whose issue
Had I three ears, I'ld hear thee.
instruments which aided to expose the child were
In her behalf that scorns your services.
Dead to my husband?
will not dispraise your sister Cassandra's wit, but--
I speak in respect--
Your widow-dolour likewise be unwept!
spy her through the wall. You shall see, it will
I'll none of it: hence! make your best of it.
This is some fellow,
Do you not read some tokens of my son
I do; and bear the shame most patiently.
Exit
But yet I'll make assurance double sure,
The lords at Pomfret, when they rode from London,
We must give up to Diomedes' hand
Do with so good a woman?
To lay our service freely at your feet,
I know he'll quickly fly my friendship too.
SCENE IV. A nunnery.
What, a hundred, man?
Thus from my lips, by yours, my sin is purged.
Made up to the deed, doth push on this proceeding:
CANIDIUS marcheth with his land army one way over  the stage; and TAURUS, the lieutenant of OCTAVIUS  CAESAR, the other way. After their going in, is heard the noise of a sea-fight
The blood is hot that must be cool'd for this:
one Nym, sir, that beguiled him of a chain, had the
To lay my crown at 's feet, and there to kneel:
Dies
thou sawest me not. Fare thee well.
You know since Pentecost the sum is due,
Be it lawful I take up what's cast away.
Look up, my lord.
Shall I destroy him? whether there, or there, or there?
Before my God, I might not this believe
If, once a widow, ever I be wife!
As by your high imperial majesty
The poisonous damp of night disponge upon me,
And in the temple of great Jupiter
And venomous to thine eyes. My sometime general,
What, shall this speech be spoke for our excuse?
Where is he?
To dinner presently.
'Tis very true, my grief lies all within;
It shall be suffigance.
Ay, marry, is't; crowner's quest law.
If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
Attended on by many a lord and knight.
Whom once more I present unto your highness.
You to a love that your true faith doth merit:
And know themselves and you.
He plies the duke at morning and at night,
Vengeance of Jenny's case! fie on her! never name
Exit
doublet quickly.
A bawd, a bawd, a bawd! so ho!
Of mortals that fall back to gaze on him
Be it with resolution then to fight.
Look, sir, here comes the lady towards my cell.
Proof?
Since I saw you last,
Ay, forsooth; I have spoke with her and we have a
Should have borne men; and expectation fainted,
Because I know you well and love you well,
In that thou laid'st a trap to take my life,
SCENE III. The Florentine camp.
My haste made me unmannerly. There is staying
By history, report, or his own proof,
Tell you the lady what she is to do,
a merciful man; good my lord.
must take me up for swearing; as if I borrowed mine
I prithee, lady, have a better cheer;
Remove your thought; it doth abuse your bosom.
Of this hard world, my ragged prison walls,
The offer of an hundred thousand crowns
Child of integrity, hath from my soul
What's thy name?
What art thou, Greek? art thou for Hector's match?
I prize above my dukedom.
Where nothing can proceed that toucheth us
Exeunt all except BENEDICK and CLAUDIO
Brass, cur!
O excellent!
Yet Brutus says he was ambitious;
Sweet peace conduct his sweet soul to the bosom
Out, sword, and wound
Towards him I made, but he was ware of me
To him our absolute power:
You, that did void your rheum upon my beard
Revengingly enfeebles me; or could this carl,
Exeunt ACHILLES and PATROCLUS
Except my mistress.
Take't up, I say; give't to thy crone.
Why, sir, his hide is so tanned with his trade, that
Utter your gravity o'er a gossip's bowl;
Nay, I will; that's flat:
What is about to be? I am out of breath;
You see how simple and how fond I am.
Love thee as our commander and our king.
She soon shall know of us, by some of ours,
Be bright and jovial among your guests to-night.
Vouchsafe my labour, and long live your lordship!
Drinks
I am not bound to that all slaves are free to.
To move wild laughter in the throat of death?
To serve in such a difference. What devil was't
Thrice and once the hedge-pig whined.
I am to get a man,--whate'er he be,
Something; and scarce so much: nothing, indeed.
hereafter, and aim better at me by that I now will
had rather it would please you I might be whipt.
Then pause not; for the present time's so sick,
hear of me, so think of me. Go, comfort your
Go, play, boy, play: thy mother plays, and I
I will anon: first, let us go to dinner.
At his head a grass-green turf,
ill together: our virtues would be proud, if our
But yesternight: when all athwart there came
I should kick, being kick'd; and, being at that pass,
My people are with sickness much enfeebled,
There is another friar that set them on;
Thou call'dst me dog before thou hadst a cause;
strange dishes. May I be so converted and see with
To the great love I bear you,--
No, by mine honour, but I was bid to come for you.
Upon a valiant race thy harsh
And braggart with my tongue! But, gentle heavens,
We should profane the service of the dead
But dead they are, and devilish slave, by thee.
can give you intelligence of an intended marriage.
O death, made proud with pure and princely beauty!
But who is man that is not angry?
Surely I do believe your fair cousin is wronged.
And heir apparent to the English crown:
what of that? if it please the eye of one, it is
I have been worth the whistle.
Here comes my messenger.
To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
I've hope to live, and am prepared to die.
If that the heavens do not their visible spirits
I am the man: if it be so, as 'tis,
Calling my officers about me, in my branched velvet
Where was this lane?
The time inviting thee? the perturb'd court,
Until the golden circuit on my head,
Is to avoid the aim. Therefore, to horse;
There be many Caesars,
If you do sweat to put a tyrant down,
But O, the thorns we stand upon! Camillo,
mirth: he hath twice or thrice cut Cupid's
ANTIPHOLUS
Ye cannot reason almost with a man
That we have given him cause.
Unmeritable shuns your high request.
A bribe to pay my sword: I do refuse it;
There will we dine. This woman that I mean,
Vouch with me, heaven, I therefore beg it not,
And pity 'tis 'tis true: a foolish figure;
What is that noise?
widow Dido!
You're welcome, sir; and he, for your good sake.
Let it be call'd the wild and wandering flood,
Into his study of imagination,
And let us, Polydore, though now our voices
Non eget Mauri jaculis, nec arcu.'
Is this all your worship's reason?
Do you not love my sister?
What yours?--and yours?
Wherein I see myself--
Either new, or by remissness new-conceived,
And, in despite of mirth, mean to be merry.
But do not speak to me. Lead me to my chamber.
Now, therefore, be it known to noble Lewis,
Who is already sick and pale with grief,
My brother was too careless of his charge.
I do desire thee, even from a heart
Now, if the help of Norfolk and myself,
Let me speak proudly: tell the constable
Sick at the heart.
Which you are out of, with a gentler spirit,
[Starting up]  No assure you; the wall is down that
In this uncivil and thou unjust extent
Shall cry for blessings on him: may he live
Of Messaline: Sebastian was my father;
'This must be so.' We pray you, throw to earth
The rashness of a woman: he is touch'd
And I must minister the like to you.
Signifying nothing.
[Going]  My lord, I take my leave.
Thump.
With words, fair looks and liberality?
am peppered, I warrant, for this world. A plague o'
'twill be his bane; he cannot bear it.
Beloved sons, be yours: which to confirm,
Ah balmy breath, that dost almost persuade
Alas, and woe!
And all those friends that deign to follow me.
O sir, it is better to be brief than tedious. Show
Of whom thy father, Prince of Wales, was first:
Come, bring us, bring us where he is.
So mighty are his vowed enemies.
Even to the very quality of my lord:
Because his fathers are more beautiful?
True, my good boy. Come, bring us to this hovel.
With reservation of an hundred knights,
Than doth your brother that hath banish'd you.
Resumes his mantle
Falls in a trance
Will clear or end the business: when the oracle,
Have any resting for her true king's queen.
Cousin, I am too young to be your father,
'Tis the next way to turn tailor, or be red-breast
He's married.
To back thy quarrels, whatsoe'er they be.
Enter a Servant
Which had superfluous kings for messengers
the most comparative, rascalliest, sweet young
When roasted crabs hiss in the bowl,
Give the word through.
As the ox hath his bow, sir, the horse his curb and
Upon condition I may quietly
And of all Christian souls, I pray God. God be wi' ye.
Exeunt KING HENRY VI, QUEEN MARGARET, and SUFFOLK
A commodity in question, I warrant you. Come, we'll obey you.
with a piece of toasted cheese.
And 'twill be supper-time ere you come there.
cuff was but to knock at your ear, and beseech
Whither indeed, before thy here-approach,
Our father he hath writ, so hath our sister,
Thou camest here to complain.
Take honour from me, and my life is done:
Seven earls, twelve barons and twenty reverend bishops,
That she repeals him for her body's lust;
though? C ourage! As horns are odious, they are
To-day, to-day, unhappy day, too late,
And here he means to spend his time awhile:
For had I cursed now, I had cursed myself.
O, do not learn her wrath; she taught it thee;
No heretics burn'd, but wenches' suitors;
And bear the palm alone.
And I think I have the back-trick simply as strong
They will, then, ere't be long.
door like a sheriff's post, and be the supporter to
To whom God will, there be the victory!
The king, I fear, is poison'd by a monk:
Of this commission? I believe, not any.
Who even in pure and vestal modesty,
Take what wife you will to bed,
That do distribute it; in the name o' the people
Why dost not comfort me, and help me out
Even to falling. Give him no breath, but now
What she says I'll confirm: we'll fight it out.
Relieved him with such sanctity of love,
Yours, yours.
The resignation of thy state and crown
To spy into abuses, and oft my jealousy
tell us, do you hear whether Antonio have had any
customers. First, here's young Master Rash; he's in
What should it be, that they so shriek abroad?
Now, they believe it; and withal whet me
Day, my lord.
As I can bid thee speak.
Warr'st thou with a woman's heart?
Therefore be patient, take no note of him:
I'll run away till I am bigger, but then I'll fight.
Our ancient word of courage, fair Saint George,
outswear Cupid. Comfort, me, boy: what great men
what you are, being a man. Truly, the lady fathers
We do not come as minding to contest you,
So shall no foot upon the churchyard tread,
Give you good night.
to be married to hell?
Shall feel this day as sharp to them as thorn.
Till this madman show'd thee? and what art thou now?
Sir Topas, Sir Topas!
Or I am mad, or else this is a dream:
Call in the messengers sent from the Dauphin.
God save your honour!
What dowry shall I have with her to wife?
And 'tis a kind of good deed to say well:
Shamest thou to show thy dangerous brow by night,
Outliving beauty's outward, with a mind
Whose frown hath made thee faint and fly ere this!
That this same child of honour and renown,
Now, good sir,
'Tis unreasonable! Will you take up your wife's
How easy is it for the proper-false
Your mistress sent to have me home to dinner?
Why, how now, father!
My Lord of York, I promise you, the king
Lucius, I'll fit thee; and withal, my boy,
Exeunt. Alarums
Hold, valiant Clifford! for a thousand causes
Cousins, God give you joy!
Let go thy hand.
[Aside]  To be whipped; and yet a better love than
In cunning I must draw my sword upon you
Affection! thy intention stabs the centre:
another Nan; but, I detest, an honest maid as ever
Enter DON JOHN
Who not contented that he lopp'd the branch
Weep for my pardon. So it must be, for now
And to give notice, that no manner of person
Where is Polonius?
Let's yet be fellows; let's shake our heads, and say,
Graces her subjects, and her thoughts the king
At Menelaus' tent, most princely Troilus:
Ay, marry, why was he sent into England?
pass of pate; there's another garment for't.
Why then, my horns are his horns, whether I wake or sleep.
To be my child Cordelia.
Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?
Attested by the holy close of lips,
Follow her close; give her good watch,
strikes one.
Woe me! for what?
Exeunt
Enter MONTAGUE with drum and colours
Lamentable! What,
You know the lady; she is fast my wife,
In rank Achilles must or now be cropp'd,
For though abundantly they lack discretion,
Lord cardinal,
Be comforted, good madam: the great rage,
The while I'll place you: then the boy shall sing;
Such a one is a natural philosopher. Wast ever in
Exeunt
That are recorded in this schedule here:
If power change purpose, what our seemers be.
Have moved us and our council, that you shall
Is almost come.
liable, congruent and measurable for the afternoon:
How now! what is in you? why dost thou tear it?
we jest now, think you?
He goeth down
husband is this morning gone a-birding: I have
That God had lent us but this only child;
do solicit you in that kind, you know your answer.
Must I then do't to them?
The nightingale, if she should sing by day,
Thou foul accursed minister of hell!
He is welcome too.
As you must needs, for you all cried 'Go, go,'--
matter. How does your ladyship like it?
Holds from all soldiers chief majority
Disguise, I see, thou art a wickedness,
What says she to my face?
A world of torments though I should endure,
Without controlment, justice, or revenge?
I call thee not.
It stands as an edict in destiny:
Came post with post; and every one did bear
As I did him, and speak of something wildly
Between the king and Katharine?
I should be author to dishonour you!
Heaven truly knows that thou art false as hell.
behalf as you have uttered words in your own, you
Why would he for the momentary trick
O'ercome with moss and baleful mistletoe:
What's his excuse?
Before I see thee seated in that throne
We cannot, sir, we are undone already.
And entertain'd me with mine own device;
Most audible, even from his proper tongue,
Base Trojan, thou shalt die.
If we should fail?
With us to break his neck.
Of thine own cause.
An eye like Mars, to threaten and command;
Sir John Falstaff, serve Got, and leave your
sword, and then we will chop him in the malmsey-butt
thinking? Sure, they sleep; he hath no use of them.
SCENE II. The same. Plains near Angiers.
There was excellent command,--to charge in with our
Hadst thou, like us from our first swath, proceeded
highness wronged.
them break your backs with burthens, take your
Though ne'er so cunningly you smother it.
Here, take this purse, thou whom the heavens' plagues
Not if the small come first.
Before me, she's a good wench.
Cry you mercy, I took you for a joint-stool.
Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE and NORTHUMBERLAND, with Forces
Of murderous subornation, shall it be,
testimony and witness, and will avouchment, that
So soon be drawn, nor did he think it meet
Hath done you both this cursed injury.
the will. Come, be a man. Drown thyself! drown
Rush all to pieces on thy rocky bosom.
Of general ignorance,--it must omit
Follow him, friends: we'll hear a play to-morrow.
To princely Richard and to Buckingham.
sick health!
The rest, that love me, rise and follow me.
Who is't that calls? is it my lady mother?
Let pride, which she calls plainness, marry her.
Now do I see thee, ha! have at thee, Hector!
Like a fair house built on another man's ground; so
Will furnish me. But soft! how many months
And that we are most lofty runaways.
Buried some dear friend? Hath not else his eye
Shall tender duty make me suffer wrong?
Was it not yesterday we spoke together?
There must we bring him; and myself have play'd
I tell thee what: get thee to church o' Thursday,
Turning again toward childish treble, pipes
Say his long trouble now is passing
person than any of us all.
No mind that's honest
Should slip so grossly, both in the heat of blood.
And had as ample power as I have will,
Of his most sovereign name; consider little
supply; who, having great and instant occasion to
Her eyes myself, could win me to believe,
Unsounded yet and full of deep deceit.
And till she stoop she must not be full-gorged,
All the land knows that:
Either both or none.
They say, our French lack language to deny,
Shall be their father's bail; and bane to those
Tribunes, I thank you: and this suit I make,
This late dissension grown betwixt the peers
SCENE II. Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
To set a gloss on faint deeds, hollow welcomes,
But more of that anon. Take him aside.
All circumstances well considered.
Or die renowned by attempting it.
There is five in the first show.
Let me pour in some sack to the Thames water; for my
For an abuser of the world, a practiser
Single you thither then this dainty doe,
Madam, I wish it may.
Did you beg any? God forbid!
A husband! a devil.
If you have victory, let the trumpet sound
Is to come fairly off from the great debts
You shall not be
Poison and treason are the hands of sin,
Take that, until thou bring me better news.
In so high a style, Margaret, that no man living
for breath to utter what is like thee! you
No teeth for the present. Get thee gone: to-morrow
To one above itself. Each following day
Thou speak'st as if I would deny my name.
More shall they speak; for now I am bent to know,
Now buckler falsehood with a pedigree?
Wilt thou lay hands on me, villain?
Why have my sisters husbands, if they say
But who did bid thee join with us?
With mine officer!
For what, I pray thee?
Come hissing in upon 'em,--
May they not be my oracles as well,
Will I look to't.
You say, if I bring in your Rosalind,
There's yet one good in ten.
His royal self in judgment comes to hear
France is a dog-hole, and it no more merits
Then pleaded I for you.
Avoid what's grown than question how 'tis born.
By any likelihood he show'd to-day?
He fighteth as one weary of his life.
And make your channel his? If he have power
Ay, like a black dog, as the saying is.
The close contriver of all harms,
But thou art neither like thy sire nor dam;
And gladly shunn'd who gladly fled from me.
Romeo!
With Valentinus in the emperor's court:
Enter, sir, the castle.
But I will have them, if I once know where.
Arrested him at York, and brought him forward,
'Achilles hath the mighty Hector slain.'
Enter the Mayor and two Aldermen, below
This tale of Herne the hunter for a truth.
Must have a word anon. Lay hold on him.
The hateful commons will perform for us,
Their thimbles into armed gauntlets change,
My conscience tells me you are innocent.
That ever lived in the tide of times.
The battle continues; the Britons fly; CYMBELINE is  taken: then enter, to his rescue, BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS
Dear earth, I do salute thee with my hand,
And princes' courts be fill'd with my reproach.
Well, what remedy? Fenton, heaven give thee joy!
And bring our horses unto Long-lane end;
No, madam; so it stead you, I will write
I sent your message; who return'd her thanks
Before you find it other. All the regions
double-dealer: there's another.
he out of Venice, I can make what merchandise I
never had triumph'd upon a Scot.
Farewell; for I must leave you:
Nor store of treasons to augment my guilt;
Blasted with ecstasy: O, woe is me,
We cannot but obey
The sway, revenue, execution of the rest,
I kneel before thee; and unproperly
She is a woman, therefore to be won.
Where I have seen them shiver and look pale,
Or my true heart with treacherous revolt
Heart, once be stronger than thy continent,
Lies down and sleeps
O, temperance, lady!
What misadventure is so early up,
I will drop in his way some obscure epistles of
desire is boundless and the act a slave to limit.
Whilst I remember
Ha! let me see: ay, give it me, it's mine:
Happy be you!
Doth comfort thee in thy sleep: live, and flourish!
You would not hear me,
To-day in our young lords; but they may jest
Mad for thy love?
Some dreadful story hanging on thy tongue?
Shall come again, transform'd to orient pearl,
But even then the morning cock crew loud,
Compassion on the king commands me stoop;
Heart-hardening spectacles; tell these sad women
Exeunt Citizens
I am not afraid.
We'll quickly rouse the traitors in the same.
Cast none away. That I shall clear myself,
Shut door upon me, and so give me up
own people.
To answer thy best pleasure; be't to fly,
Are they that I would have thee deal upon:
And speak between the change of man and boy
When we have laugh'd to see the sails conceive
translated.
Shall witness I set forth as soon as you
Of sea and land, which can distinguish 'twixt
business, but he would not hear my excuse. I am
It is a manacle of love; I'll place it
To be fantastic may become a youth
For I will throw my glove to Death himself,
The Cardinal Pandulph is within at rest,
Villain, I say, knock me at this gate
Exceedingly, my lord; it is very sultry,--as
has not past three or four hairs on his chin,--
How now for mitigation of this bill
Whose fulness of perfection lies in him.
Which heavy sorrow makes them apt unto:
But, soft! I think she comes; and I'll prepare
ANTIPHOLUS
Ah, Nell, forbear! thou aimest all awry;
The happiest gift that ever marquess gave,
And now to Helen is it home return'd,
Never to speak of this that you have heard,
Unmannerly breech'd with gore: who could refrain,
I'll watch Titania when she is asleep,
Whilst we were wandering with the antipodes,
Who am I? ha?
And see his shipwreck and his commonweal's.
In heaven; send hither to see: if your messenger
Let him that loves me strike me dead.
And so 'tis.
I'll lop a member off and give it you
No more evasion:
That it may show me what a face I have,
day.
That are but mutes or audience to this act,
O'erpays all I can do. By this, your king
Are you not good?
Prepare to lodge their companies to-night.
We wait upon your grace.
I marvel your ladyship takes delight in such a
The word, 'Me pompae provexit apex.'
Leave me alone to woo him. Let's away,
He vanishes in thunder; then, to soft music  enter the Shapes again, and dance, with mocks and mows, and carrying out the table
liking; I shall be out of heart shortly, and then I
And in the shape of Corin sat all day,
The cost of princes on unworthy shoulders?
A shepherd's daughter,
Conferr'd by testament to the sequent issue,
Exit
We need more light to find your meaning out.
If you use them, Margaret, you must put in the
For you shall hop without my custom, sir:
Sweet lady, ho, ho.
I see you have a month's mind to them.
Making them proud of his humility,
Re-enter Attendant, with two Murderers
What, hast not thou full often struck a doe,
Enter BIONDELLO
Splitted the heart. This is his sword;
Thanks, fairest lady.
A man may weep upon his wedding-day.
A show of Eight Kings, the last with a glass in his hand; GHOST OF BANQUO following
Have in their own land beaten, bobb'd, and thump'd,
the scale.
Say to great Caesar this: in deputation
courted now with a double occasion, gold and a means
And rob his temples of the diadem,
Because all those things you have done of late,
merriest was put down, and the worser allowed by
And wish for all that, that I had not killed them;
What law does vouch mine own.
The other turns to a mirth-moving jest,
say 'Get you to heaven, Beatrice, get you to
And stay, good nurse, behind the abbey wall:
He was the wretched'st thing when he was young,
Do thou amend thy face, and I'll amend my life:
I arrest thee of high treason, by the name of
Nothing, my lord.
That almost freezes up the heat of life:
REGAN plucks his beard
Enter THYREUS
Now, by the death of Him that died for all,
I know not what to say.
He kneels down
How it did grieve Macbeth! did he not straight
Must give my tendence to.
Counsel, Lucetta; gentle girl, assist me;
And so, good morrow, servant.
That calls our person from our morning's rest?
Well then the peace,
Yea, faith itself to hollow falsehood change!
Have died had I not made it.
Sweet Isabel, do yet but kneel by me;
This I'll report, dear lady.
Yes, Jack, upon instinct.
you?
Macbeth doth come.
Ere clean it o'erthrow nature, makes it valiant,
Or shall I come to you at evening mass?
He fables not; I hear the enemy:
Exeunt
The heavy accent of thy moving tongue
'Tis certain, greatness, once fall'n out with fortune,
SCENE III. The temple of Diana at Ephesus; THAISA standing
And, as the president of my kingdom, will
That the fixed sentinels almost receive
Which break themselves in swearing!
Ascribe we all! When, without stratagem,
For you shall sup with Jesu Christ to-night.
Why, gentlemen, you do me double wrong,
What is your name?
How they at Pomfret bloodily were butcher'd,
What's thine own name?
I'll broach the tadpole on my rapier's point:
Nor none so bad, but it may well be told.
Hence, therefore, every leader to his charge;
I trust I shall. My women, come; you have leave.
father died at Hallowmas: was't not at Hallowmas,
He that has and a little tiny wit--
Do not rise yet.
'Fore me, this fellow speaks! What then? what then?
Runs in your veins; and my thrice-puissant liege
The crying babe controll'd with this discourse:
That I advise your shunning.
for a swine: 'tis pretty; it is well.
You common cry of curs! whose breath I hate
I think it lacks of twelve.
Some of my shame; if you will know of me
And learn this lesson, draw thy sword in right.
And mock our eyes with air: thou hast seen
Say, what's thy name?
His forward voice now is to speak well of his
If you oppose yourselves to match Lord Warwick.
his servant? Nay, I'll be sworn, I have sat in the
A couching lion and a ramping cat,
When others sleep upon their quiet beds,
Dogs, easily won to fawn on any man!
I'll in, to urge his hatred more to Clarence,
Exit
my displeasure. That young start-up hath all the
Jove knows what man thou mightst have made; but I,
Reads
SCENE II. Another room in the palace.
Will I? i'faith, that we will; and I will tell your
Is held no great good lover of the archbishop's,
But mine and mine I loved and mine I praised
No, sir; that were fast and loose: thou shalt to prison.
And make them know what 'tis to let a queen
that let me inform you.
Doth stop my cornets, were in Talbot's place!
guides him should aid him, I will search
Brutus, I do observe you now of late:
Young Bertram.
will give over all.
than follow him like a dwarf.
knowledge in th' aunchient wars, upon my particular
into my note.
Exit
More upon humour than advised respect.
O good old man, how well in thee appears
Enter DROMIO of Syracuse, from the bay
That yet you do not know. Fie on this storm!
My tongue cleave to my roof within my mouth
How you awake our sleeping sword of war:
We honour you with trouble: but we came
it: and, to stop up the displeasure he hath
Enter PERICLES, on shipboard
For his ungrateful country done the like.
More ready to cry out 'Who knows what follows?'
me to the gaol.
Whose heavy hand hath bow'd you to the grave
But what talk we of fathers, when there is such a
Yet fruits that blossom first will first be ripe:
Peel'd priest, dost thou command me to be shut out?
I pray you, bear with me; I cannot go no further.
Abraham and Mistress Anne Page.
Of noble Richard! then true noblesse would
Make me a willow cabin at your gate,
And I have reason for it. Signior Antonio
Sirrah Costard, I will enfranchise thee.
other places she enlargeth her mirth so far that
Moist it again, and frame some feeling line
Will you leave me there?
Of your complexion.
Then, grandam, you conclude that he is dead.
Beside, so qualified as may beseem
Be swift like lightning in the execution;
'Tis but the fate of place, and the rough brake
never come in mine own great chamber again else, of
O, know he is the bridle of your will.
Here they skirmish again
Into the gallery.
To have thee with thy lips to stop my mouth;
And help to set a head on headless Rome.
And heartily, for our deliverance;
Or been reguerdon'd with so much as thanks,
Marry, will I, sir; and, for that I promised you,
And as he is, to witness this is true.
and forbid him to wear it. I will only be bold
And, by his treason, stand'st not thou attainted,
Me cause to wail but teachest me the way
Of prison gates;
Withal I did infer your lineaments,
He purposeth to Athens: whither, with what haste
Or why thou, being a subject as I am,
Her bed is India; there she lies, a pearl:
Hark!
[Aside]
With clouts about their heads.
That pitiful rumour may report my flight,
To LYSIMACHUS
O no, my reasons are too deep and dead;
My fairy lord, this must be done with haste,
Or study where to meet some mistress fine,
O, if thou teach me to believe this sorrow,
And that engenders thunder in his breast
With that she's big with; for 'tis Polixenes
She said thou wast my daughter; and thy father
For more than blushing comes to: if your back
Stand'st thou aloof upon comparison?
And live a coward in thine own esteem,
As mine, against their will. Should all despair
over and over as my poor self in love. Marry, I
That bear in them one and the self-same tongue,
Thus far into the bowels of the land
And still, as you are weary of the weight,
I am glad he's come, howsoe'er he comes.
Exeunt
Are you acquainted with the difference
From the spongy south to this part of the west,
He goes away in a cloud: call him, call him.
Which all this while had bled; and now he fainted
But at this instant he is sick my lord,
Gain, be my lord, for I will worship thee.
Stand by my side, you whom the gods have made
motley in my brain. Good madonna, give me leave to
dearer father in my love.
Whether Bassanio had not once a love.
Only in bone, that none may look on you!
That hatred is so far from jealousy,
Enter GOWER and FLUELLEN, meeting
With terrible numbers,
And, not without some scandal to yourself,
I am undone: there is no living, none,
And partly, seeing you are beautified
But pardon't, as you are a gentleman.
Let not our looks put on our purposes,
I went
The star is fall'n.
Why, how now, ho! from whence ariseth this?
That set him high in fame.
Ay, but, lady,
Young York he is but boot, because both they
Good name in man and woman, dear my lord,
Delay. Here are the angels that you sent for to
So much for that. The silent hours steal on,
Enter, from one side, LUCIUS, IACHIMO, and  the Roman Army: from the other side, the  British Army; POSTHUMUS LEONATUS following,  like a poor soldier. They march over and go  out. Then enter again, in skirmish, IACHIMO  and POSTHUMUS LEONATUS he vanquisheth and disarmeth IACHIMO, and then leaves him
The father of this seeming lady and
How use doth breed a habit in a man!
Were still at odds, being but three.
To the best bride-bed will we,
For private quarrel 'twixt your duke and him,
What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
She's a most exquisite lady.
Upon his face an ocean of salt tears,
And will with deeds requite thy gentleness:
Your most dear daughter--
Heaven would that she these gifts should have,
And, whilst the babbling echo mocks the hounds,
The whole butt, man: my cellar is in a rock by the
Had it the ability of life to thank you:
So sweet a death as hanging presently.
from the purpose of playing, whose end, both at the
Nor shall not, whilst 'tis in my custody.
Come on, then;
SCENE II. London. The palace.
Tell him he must awake, and that quickly too.
Handlest in thy discourse, O, that her hand,
Why, then you mean not as I thought you did.
That hath contrived this woful tragedy!
Now would I give a thousand furlongs of sea for an
She hath been then more fear'd than harm'd, my liege;
Hark, hark! I hear him, mistress. fly, be gone!
A clip-wing'd griffin and a moulten raven,
Why ring not out the bells aloud throughout the town?
Who  but to-day hammer'd of this design,
RICHARD
In my school-days, when I had lost one shaft,
me she did affect me: and I have heard herself come
Had I but served my God with half the zeal
Most maculate thoughts, master, are masked under
Sir, I shall meet your wit in the career, and you
Deliver with more openness your answers
I will, my lord.
This case of that huge spirit now is cold:
something. But say, sir, is it dinner-time?
By many of these trains hath sought to win me
Perhaps I shall be rescued by the French;
And brought to yoke, the enemies of Rome.
It shall suffice me: at which interview
Where it should guard. O war, thou son of hell,
Betwixt myself and her; which was broke off,
What is his strength by land?
[Aside]  I will be patient; I will find out this.
kill him; by this sword, I will.
I am unworthy to be Henry's wife.
It is true.
And therefore haste I to the parliament,
that? away!
For this was brief--I found them close together,
To noble fortunes: know thou this, that men
That, if you fail in our request, the blame
But, if I bow, they'll say it was for fear.
You take me in too dolorous a sense;
I say, they nourish'd disobedience, fed
and come every day to my cote and woo me.
Sweet lord, and why?
Ay, with my dagger in their bosoms, grandsire.
Why, just, my lord, and that is Angelo,
You do seem to know
taught her suitor,
He show'd his warrant to a friend of mine:
Fellow Grumio!
Though bearing misery, I desire my life
Now, my Titania; wake you, my sweet queen.
And beg thy pardon ere he do accuse thee.
'And more wealth than faults.'
Here come our wives, and let us take our leave.
Alarums: excursions. Enter THERSITES
A thousand complete courses of the sun!
Anon, I'm sure, the duke himself in person
That we may praise thee in the victory!
false. Here, Claudio, I have wooed in thy name, and
Let's follow; 'tis not fit thus to obey him.
Your aery buildeth in our aery's nest.
I would love you, if I could. To-morrow meet me all together.
this starting.
Here is a touch; is't good?
To be but named of thee. His meanest garment,
Up and down, up and down,
Was a most sainted king: the queen that bore thee,
To thy false seeming! Blood, thou art blood:
Valiant Lord Talbot, Earl of Shrewsbury,
And so riveted with faith unto your flesh.
SCENE I. A hall in DUKE SOLINUS'S palace.
Marry, on Hero, the daughter and heir of Leonato.
Lysander! what, removed? Lysander! lord!
The boy gives warning something doth approach.
Of the full-fortuned Caesar ever shall
I was a fine fool to take it. I must take out the
Is she so hot a shrew as she's reported?
The man that makes his toe
Ay, let her rot, and perish, and be damned to-night;
He will not know what all but he do know:
Be taken from the people.
And sworn unto the practises of France,
Noble friends,
Most sacrilegious murder hath broke ope
Money, youth?
What is this same?
I'll hang my head and perish.
Accounted dangerous folly: why then, alas,
I think she'll sooner prove a soldier
hazard thy life for thy dinner: wert thou the
I'll smoke your skin-coat, an I catch you right;
Which your own coffers yield! with diseased ventures
I would you had never seen him!
And by his side his fruit of bastardy.
Coz, farewell.
Is cramm'd with arrogancy, spleen, and pride.
Where great patricians shall attend and shrug,
Confound your hidden falsehood, and award
Master, there is three carters, three shepherds,
Give us the swords; we have bucklers of our own.
Sir, the Germans desire to have three of your
Doth falsely blind the eyesight of his look:
No, my lord, I'll fight.
Royal Antiochus--on what cause I know not--
The fairest in all Syria,
plucked me ope his doublet and offered them his
he would show most love. When yet he was but
For many years thought dead, are now revived,
joints of every thing, but everything so out of joint
Then half Signior Benedick's tongue in Count John's
flaming a praise for a good complexion. I had as
stocks for puddings he hath stolen, otherwise he had
My gracious silence, hail!
competency lives longer.
Between my father and my mother lay,
She hath no tongue to call, nor hands to wash;
But I will fit it with some better time.
I stay but for my guidon: to the field!
To the ground, and all the world shall mourn her.
Till their own scorn return to them unnoted
your lover.
and therein am I constant to my profession.
obscenely and courageously. Take pains; be perfect: adieu.
almost as great as his honesty; had it stretched so
Fathers, from hence trust not your daughters' minds
Exeunt KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, and Attendants
a dishclout of Jaquenetta's, and that a' wears next
And twit with cowardice a man half dead?
I know not where is that Promethean heat
We are all frail.
It yet hath felt no age nor known no sorrow.
Hold it a fashion and a toy in blood,
From giving aid which late I promised.
Making it momentany as a sound,
For, as thou urgest justice, be assured
Can her contempt be answer'd?
As on a mountain top the cedar shows
Swallow them up. Now, by yond marble heaven,
Yea, without stop, didst let thy heart consent,
Safely stowed.
good horse to hire,' let them signify under my sign
It skills not greatly who impugns our doom.
Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg,
Looking awry upon your lord's departure,
A murderer and a villain;
Enter LAVINIA
I sought a husband, in which labour
here follows prose.
My heart laments that virtue cannot live
For, sure, my thoughts do hourly prophesy
But I must also feel it as a man:
opportunity.
Enter two Gentlemen
Not making any scruple of her soilure,
I am not vexed more at any thing in the earth: a
Daughter to Charles the foresaid duke of Lorraine:
From the inward of thee? One, but painted thus,
Should from her vesture chance to steal a kiss
Or race of youthful and unhandled colts,
To you yourself, to us, to every one.
Come from country to be judged by you,
Nor pluck it from his finger, for the wealth
To revenge is no valour, but to bear.
These quarrels must be quietly debated.
Unless thou swear to me my child shall live.
Lights, lights, lights!
That lowliness is young ambition's ladder,
Why, what should you fear?
Marry, sir, the pittie-ward, the park-ward, every
To the fire i' the blood: be more abstemious,
Let him on.
Let's briefly put on manly readiness,
Cry the amen; and yet my conscience says
Save him from danger, do him love and honour,
Is ours already, and the man entire
Than seek a dispensation for his oath,
This palliament of white and spotless hue;
South from the mighty power of the king.
Enter LADY FAULCONBRIDGE and GURNEY
But it is your carbonadoed face.
Or I mistake you: O, would her name were Grace!
Should not become my wife and England's queen.
Upbraid's with our distress. But, sure, if you
Kneels
Are hired to bear their staves: either thou, Macbeth,
with thee.
Which brought us hither.
To make a shambles of the parliament-house!
[Aside to him]  How now, Roderigo!
The beauty that is borne here in the face
Of silver, each on one foot standing, nicely
Come on, sir; hold.
To appease an angry god.
For learning me your language!
will come this way by and by, and then we may deliver
He did not call; he's busy in the paper.
His better doth not breathe upon the earth.
Believe me, she has had much wrong: lord cardinal,
A title for a maid of all titles the worst.
Between that love a woman can bear me
Why 'her unhappy brother'? let me ask,
And drown consideration.
Go home with it and please your wife withal;
My liege, I am advised what I say,
So mainly as my merit: I cannot sing,
A shrewd one to's.
description, level at my affection.
To unbar these locks. My conscience, thou art fetter'd
You come hither, my lord, to marry this lady.
do fructify in us more than he.
A daughter, and a goodly babe,
Nay, look upon him.
I will be even with thee, doubt it not.
Truly, madam, he holds Belzebub at the staves's end as
Wrong hath but wrong, and blame the due of blame.
My lord, we'll do it throughly.
I praise God for you, sir: your reasons at dinner
Coin words till their decay against those measles,
A sovereign shame so elbows him: his own unkindness,
Before he go to bed. I'll take my leave.
And I have seen thee pause and take thy breath,
jealous in France.
Does she love him?
He writes his name with his staff, and guides it with feet and mouth
SCENE I. Troy. A street.
'Tis done.
Before you venture for me. I could teach you
Such shapes, such gesture and such sound, expressing,
The earth hath swallow'd all my hopes but she,
shillings an ell. You owe money here besides, Sir
Is business of estate; in which we come
The chopping French we do not understand.
Sir, there is a proclamation that you are vanished.
That may with foul intrusion enter in
as you love Phebe, meet: and as I love no woman,
sleep? Master Ford awake! awake, Master Ford!
Meet me i' the morning: thither he
And you are stay'd for. There; my blessing with thee!
Being spoke behind your back, than to your face.
But faithfulness and courage.
Against a falling fabric. Will you hence,
That my poor mistress, moved therewithal,
Turning his face, he put his hand behind him,
Think'st thou to catch my life so pleasantly
And, as I am a gentleman, I credit him.
Then for the truth and plainness of the case.
Thank you, sir: farewell.
I'll steal to Glendower and Lord Mortimer;
Signior Baptista's liberality,
It was wise nature's end in the donation,
And meaner than myself have had like fortune.
Imagine I have said farewell already.
I am unfit for state and majesty;
You will do't, sir, really.
Sir John! art thou there, my deer? my male deer?
Go, girl; I cannot blame thee now to weep;
Have I lived to be carried in a basket, like a
Not petty things admitted. Where's Seleucus?
Than I to speak my griefs unspeakable:
Come on: since the youth will not be entreated, his
An ass's nole I fixed on his head:
And tell you what I know.
moon with me to make one in so skipping a dialogue.
A benefit in this change; but if you seek
Nell, sir; but her name and three quarters, that's
Well, then, I am the shooter.
of holy bread.
All studies here I solemnly defy,
This is All-Souls' day, fellows, is it not?
where you shall hear us confer of this, and by an
Be ready, gods, with all your thunderbolts;
I'll win our ancient right in France again,
Having often of your open bounty tasted,
Five justices' hands at it, and witnesses more than
In her chamber, making a sermon of continency to her;
And all the haunt be ours. Come, Eros, Eros!
If you had pleased to have defended it
Exeunt
Till I am even'd with him, wife for wife,
Your sudden approbation.
What sayest thou, Mistress Quickly? How doth thy
they hate upon no better a ground: therefore, for
I thank ye heartily; so shall this lady,
Should so profane the word, that taught me craft
And unbound the rest, and then come in the other.
And of opposed natures.
dog again.
And here comes Clifford to deny their bail.
Pages, and footboys.
Has done no more than other knights have done;
In taint of our best man. No, make a lottery;
To praise my noble act; I hear him mock
This throne, this Fortune, and this hill, methinks,
I'll claim that promise at your grace's hands.
This is the hand which, with a vow'd contract,
No, by this hand.
her husband, another elevated that the oracle was
To the good of your most sacred person and
A virtuous maid, the daughter of a count
stooping for, there it lies in your eye; if not, be
I did not, sir:
That Warwick's bones may keep thine company.
He hath, my lord; but be you well assured,
Thy father was, as thou art, Duke of York;
I reck not though I end my life to-day.
'Integer vitae, scelerisque purus,
As having sense of beauty, do omit
Come, come, we know your meaning, brother
They are fairly welcome.
strumpet in my bed; the testimonies whereof lie
Enter CARDINAL WOLSEY and CARDINAL CAMPEIUS, with a commission
Neither to you nor any one; having no witness to
Sicilia cannot show himself over-kind to Bohemia.
Exeunt
Have you importuned him by any means?
Thy flesh and bones: howe'er thou art a fiend,
for I am sure I shall turn sonnet. Devise, wit;
Fairer than tongue can name thee, let me have
deliver you.
No more; the text is foolish.
My liege, your highness now may do me good.
'Tis not a mile; briefly we heard their drums:
Ay, ay. thou wouldst be gone to join with Richmond:
Therefore I tell my sorrows to the stones;
Canker'd with peace, to part your canker'd hate:
Ah, Luciana, did he tempt thee so?
So great a day as this is cheaply bought.
How dear a lover of my lord your husband,
Statist though I am none, nor like to be,
What sights, my lord?
This vault a feasting presence full of light.
And lards the lean earth as he walks along:
A piece of him.
There lies your love.
Deliver what you will; I'll say 'tis so.
At a few drops of women's rheum, which are
Exit Post
He loved her, sir, and loved her not.
Would even infect my mouth, I do forgive
the boy never need to understand any thing; for
conscience.
This is the man should do the bloody deed;
Lie--
To stop the inundation of her tears;
Which, by the right and virtue of my place,
That turns their countenances.
out of the house.
Misused ere used, by time misused o'erpast.
From cold and empty veins, where no blood dwells;
O queen of queens! how far dost thou excel,
inkle?'--'One penny.'--'No, I'll give you a
Go forward and be choked with thy ambition!
hard for him; I have heard him say so himself.
Some heavy business hath my lord in hand,
Where's Dick, the butcher of Ashford?
It would infect his speech, that if the king
Wherein thou seest me mask'd; for thy revenge
And welcome home again discarded faith.
Thames? Well, if I be served such another trick,
provoked and instigated by his distemper, and,
That such an army could be drawn in France,
form of marriage, and you shall recount their
And such as to my claim are liable,
stands, I could heartily wish this had not befallen;
Faith, I have been a truant in the law,
right to trust none; and the fine is, for the which
pavilion on deck, with a curtain before it; PERICLES
Be collected:
[Aside]  Then we are like to have biting statutes,
If, after three days' space, thou here be'st found
Therefore change favours; and, when they repair,
I love you now; but not, till now, so much
An evil soul producing holy witness
Will not wait pinion'd at your master's court;
She false with Cassio!--did you say with Cassio?
[Aside]	Amen:
Every time
Which manifold record not matches? See,
See where they come: we will behold his death.
SCENE I. Salisbury. An open place.
I understand thee not.
day living. I speak but brotherly of him; but
Have I not reason to prefer mine own?
And from Pope Innocent the legate here,
Say,
In their nativity all truth appears.
Say so but seldom.
I beg of you to know me, good my lord,
That downward hath succeeded in his house
My father's loss, the weakness which I feel,
Exit
With these your white enchanting fingers touch'd,
Look, here she comes.
Of me more must be heard of, say, I taught thee,
Pray you, my lord, give me leave to question; you
These rural latches to his entrance open,
'Tis oft with difference--yet do they all confirm
Think of this, good peers,
Is this true, Nerissa?
I pray you, good Horatio, wait upon him.
Surely, by all the glory you have won,
Exit
Ere I taste bread, thou art in nothing less
To-morrow, my lord: time goes on crutches till love
Do, as a monster fly my presence thus.
Thus doth he force the swords of wicked men
master's false accusation; and, briefly, I desire
motion of the Prodigal Son, and married a tinker's
O plague right well prevented! so will you say when
I'll gild the faces of the grooms withal;
foolish extravagant spirit, full of forms, figures,
As I have ever found thee honest-true,
And whether we shall meet again I know not.
Been all the worth of's car. Away to Britain
The kindred of him hath been flesh'd upon us;
They wake
My lord, here is a note of certain dues.
My chamber-councils, wherein, priest-like, thou
Strike, as thou didst at Caesar; for, I know,
How shall I dote on her with more advice,
Exeunt all but MENAS and ENOBARBUS
Is't come to this?
Besides, her intercession chafed him so,
To whom you are but as a form in wax
My head should be struck off.
In fair Verona, where we lay our scene,
That jade hath eat bread from my royal hand;
[Aside]  O, give ye good even! here's a million of manners.
Ay, by my faith, that bears a frosty sound.
He thanks your grace; names himself Pericles,
The king my brother shall have note of this.
Sweet Phebe, pity me.
And I shall.
In God's name, cheerly on, courageous friends,
Or if you cannot weep, yet give some groans,
Give him tending;
furnished. They were young and handsome, and of the
Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace: but
Exeunt DUKE FREDERICK and Lords
It must of force.
Going to find a bare-foot brother out
O, that must be
Ay, my good lord.
Is stopp'd; the very source of it is stopp'd.
SCENE III. The same. Another room.
The noble Menelaus.
And no way from yourselves. What do you think,
To say the truth, this fact was infamous
My Lady Grey his wife, Clarence, 'tis she
I shall with aged patience bear your yoke.
his service; you may tell every finger I have with
O thou monster Ignorance, how deformed dost thou look!
He draweth out the thread of his verbosity finer
Stabs BASSIANUS
Some of his bastard blood; and in disgrace
Now will I to the Goths, and raise a power,
of idiot worshippers, here's a letter for thee.
Take my cap, Jupiter, and I thank thee. Hoo!
I love the sport well but I shall as soon quarrel at
How now, my masters! have you chose this man?
Thou hast a grim appearance, and thy face
Here 'tis; this is it.
I do give lost; for I do feel it gone,
Which was not so before. There's no such thing:
But that you have your father's bosom there
These hands are not more like.
For I was born at sea.
Princes in this should live like gods above,
Or at every sentence end,
Which I did make him swear to keep for ever.
What, Sir John Falstaff! Are these your letters, knight?
Then heaven
as thou hast done, and then say it was in fight!
thou art nothing.
I would have 'voided thee, but in mere spite,
In acclamations hyperbolical;
Which I have darted at thee, hurt thee not,
hill, let him draw thee after. When a wise man
Kneeling before this ruin of sweet life,
Save you your labour. He that lies slain
O, she is rich in beauty, only poor,
Have nick'd his captainship; at such a point,
To conjure tears up in a poor maid's eyes
What, a coward, Sir John Paunch?
Or perform my bidding, or thou livest in woe;
When time hath sow'd a grizzle on thy case?
Mark his condition and the event; then tell me
And by how much she strives to do him good,
I will believe thou hast a mind that suits
Queen Hecuba and Helen.
rather be such a man as Troilus than Agamemnon and
But you, my brace of lords, were I so minded,
Thrice noble Titus, spare my first-born son.
stoup of liquor.
Welcome, brave earl, into our territories:
I will not hear thee speak. This man, Aufidius,
joy waded in tears. There was casting up of eyes,
escapes not
And let all sleep? while, to my shame, I see
Thou liest, thou shag-hair'd villain!
go to him: he knows not yet of his horrorable
your son: give me your blessing: truth will come
O Douglas, hadst thou fought at Holmedon thus,
By sea and land I'll fight: or I will live,
Which is his house, beseech you?
No more to undertake it, I will work him
No, not so much as 'Take this for thy pains.' To
content. Here is a letter will say somewhat. Good
To unbuild the city and to lay all flat.
Which I made known to Lucius, ere the stroke
[Aside]  A pretty moral.
Transport her purposes by word? Belike,
blushes of hers must be quenched with some present practise.
Mort de ma vie! if they march along
Of hurlyburly innovation:
Upon a barren mountain and still winter
This wide and universal theatre
French crowns, and to-morrow the king himself will
Where the place?
Or am I mad, hearing him talk of Juliet,
But Saturnine? Full well, Andronicus,
hath made him that gracious denial which he is most
But are not some whole that we must make sick?
'Thus, thus,' quoth Forrest, 'girdling one another
And Cassio rules in Cyprus. For this slave,
Which holds him much to have.
I have but little gold of late, brave Timon,
Then yield, my lords; and here conclude with me
And over-joy of heart doth minister.
Well, welcome, welcome! I have seen the time.
Alas, my lord, what do you mean by that?
Since my young lady's going into France, sir, the
come. I tell you for good vill: adieu.
Suivez-vous le grand capitaine.
If I know this, know all the world besides,
Who would not have his wife so?
To watch the waning of mine adversaries.
will serve; for once we stood up about the corn, he
The gods best know,--
Upon the rising of the mountain-foot
shall have my pocket picked? I have lost a
Though from an humble stock, undoubtedly
All fancy-sick she is and pale of cheer,
SCENE II. London. An apartment of the Prince's.
The King of Scots; whom she did send to France,
Forth of my heart those charms, thine eyes, are blotted;
Worthy of arms! as welcome as to one
Either send the chain or send me by some token.
Fine apparition! My quaint Ariel,
And cowardly nobles, gave way unto your clusters,
And hears it roar beneath.
The secrets of his overcharged soul;
Good sir, give me good fortune.
That you shall hate it both: therefore take heed,
To the smothering of the sense--how far it is
As pledges of my fealty and love;
Those whose great power must try him; even this,
[Aside]  How all the other passions fleet to air,
And from her womb children of divers kind
What, was I born to this, that my sad look
Enter GLOUCESTER, CLARENCE, SOMERSET, and MONTAGUE
Be you remember'd, Marcus, she's gone, she's fled.
But I will gloze with him.--Young prince of Tyre,
Could he say less?
Enter CERES
The leafy shelter that abuts against
Sir, there lies such secrets in this fardel and box,
Is come on shore: the Moor himself at sea,
Time hath, my lord, a wallet at his back,
Thy marriage, sooner than thy wickedness.
I am descended of a gentler blood:
Assuming man's infirmities,
Or a dry wheel grate on the axle-tree;
That love should of a sudden take such hold?
With words that in an honest suit might move.
Whom it concerns to hear this matter forth,
have a coxcomb of frize? 'Tis time I were choked
will swear!
Let me embrace thee, good old chronicle,
Before I strike this bloody stroke, farewell.
to sit, have you not?
That, ere the next Ascension-day at noon,
Even so, Lucilius.
Why, then he is alive.
To envious and calumniating time.
The trumpets sound. They embrace, and exeunt
mortal arbitrement; but nothing of the circumstance more.
What would you 'fore our tent?
And here, to pledge my vow, I give my hand.
My back o' t' other side,--O, my back, my back!
as I said, there is no moe such Caesars: other of
our spirit,
Against my life: the minute of their plot
Poor honest lord, brought low by his own heart,
I claim her not, and therefore she is thine.
That in this spleen ridiculous appears,
Will not this malice, Somerset, be left?
Some necessaries that I needs must use,
I play the torturer, by small and small
And put the Englishmen unto the sword:
Exit
heart; for, truly, I love none.
That from his loins no hopeful branch may spring,
sleeve of Troy there in his helm: I would fain see
twelvemonth to a crooked-pated, old, cuckoldly ram,
Why, then comes in the sweet o' the year;
Away, away, mad ass! his name is Lucentio and he is
My parasite, my soldier, statesman, all:
Before the child himself felt he was sick:
me. She speaks poniards, and every word stabs:
Quip Modest; the third, the Reply Churlish; the
You have a noble and a true conceit
Or that mine eyes, mine ears, or any sense,
I would not my unhoused free condition
Pluck their hearts from them. Not to-day, O Lord,
O,'tis Marcius!
As victors wear at the Olympian games:
Gramercy, lovely Lucius: what's the news?
Who's there? whose noise is this that ones on murder?
Or ere I journey to your father's house.
Then, with your will, go on;
Exeunt Citizens
Why, so you are, my thrice renowned liege.
And to preserve my sovereign from his foe,
third, if he fight longer than he sees reason, I'll
When did the tiger's young ones teach the dam?
Draws the sweet infant breath of gentle sleep;
And these grey locks, the pursuivants of death,
Who can be other in this royal presence?
Knowing my mind, you wrong me, Master Fenton.
But, soft! who wafts us yonder?
Enter a Servant
Give me my father!
overjoyed with finding a birds' nest, shows it his
Roguery!
Are heavy orisons 'gainst this poor wretch!
To take our brother Clarence to your grace.
[Aside]  O sweet Anne Page!
Let us impart what we have seen to-night
My father, Earl of Cambridge, lost his head.
And, like as there were husbandry in war,
His face's own margent did quote such amazes
Nay, that's not so.
And that his bags shall prove.
He does well to commend it himself; there are no
And, whilst we breathe, take time to do him dead.
Let me endure your wrath, if't be not so:
I am ashamed that women are so simple
Even of the bonny beast he loved so well.
Do you not see that I am out of breath?
'Confess' and 'love'
When Biondello comes, he waits on thee;
and in such great letters as they write 'Here is
Of all the days of the year, upon that day:
But could be willing to march on to Calais
Peep through thy marble mansion; help;
Show me a murderer, I'll deal with him.
To such a greeting: villain am I none;
And seal the title with a lovely kiss!
Will have your tongue too. This is a creature,
Upon no Christian soul but English Talbot.
ANTIPHOLUS
Find you that there?
My foes I do repute you every one;
BISHOP
if you will let your lady know I am here to speak
But then more 'why?' why have they dared to march
The elements be kind to thee, and make
After your will, have cross'd the sea, attending
with him; hurt him in eleven places: my niece shall
'Tis I must make conclusion
You see me here, you gods, a poor old man,
In coffins from the field;
habit of some sir of note, and so forth. I have
For England go: I will whet on the king.
Sweet scrolls to fly about the streets of Rome!
Bareheaded, lower than his proud steed's neck,
I think I can discover him, if you please,
Nay, I know not: it makes me almost ready to
Myself have letters of the selfsame tenor.
For him I thank your grace.
Go, go, poor soul, I envy not thy glory
Will I first work: he's for his master,
I cannot tarry: I knew a wench married in an
Thou mightst have done this without thy beard and
And I will pamper it with lamentations.
But, brother Antony,--
Where is this sight?
Re-enter LYSANDER
Because you are not merry: and 'twere as easy
the matter, he makes the maid to answer 'Whoop, do me
That I have utter'd: bring me to the test,
Venice, thou wilt quake for this shortly.
Or raise myself, but keep my wonted calling?
Exeunt PEMBROKE and STAFFORD
chambers; search, seek, find out: I'll warrant
Hang all the husbands
What sudden anger's this? how have I reap'd it?
chiding than a great deal of heart-break.
What ransom must I pay before I pass?
Awake the snorting citizens with the bell,
Under the hoofs of vaunting enemies,
Of the whole body. The belly answer'd--
Then belike my children shall have no names:
Exeunt CAMBRIDGE, SCROOP and GREY, guarded
And for because the world is populous
What, sir?
Under your promised pardon. The subjects' grief
She eat no meat to-day, nor none shall eat;
The glass of fashion and the mould of form,
So flies the reckless shepherd from the wolf;
And will he steal out of his wholesome bed,
Here made by the Roman; great the answer be
Nay, not so neither: but I take him to be the
Who you saw sitting by me on the turf,
Exit
Doth fat me with the very thoughts of it!
Your aprons mountant: you are not oathable,
By all the everlasting gods, I'll go!
Giving myself a voluntary wound
Come on refresh'd, new-added, and encouraged;
I pray you, bring me on the way a little,
If spirits can assume both form and suit
But, as it were, in sort or limitation,
My mind did lose it. But, Demetrius, come;
Most incident to maids; bold oxlips and
Have their free voices: Rome, the nurse of judgment,
Ay, marry, was't, and he put it by thrice, every
Exit Lady
We will, my noble lord.
tyrannically clapped for't: these are now the
Joint by joint, but we will know his purpose.
Why shall we fight, if you pretend no title?
Exit
By this leek, I will most horribly revenge: I eat
I am but a fool, look you; and yet I have the wit to
Your letter is with Jupiter by this.
Hear a little further
I kiss his dirty shoe, and from heart-string
O, go to. Well, well,
With winged haste to the lord marshal;
And added years to his short banishment,
The parents live, whose children thou hast butcher'd,
Enter DEMETRIUS and CHIRON
I would speak with Clarence, and I came hither on my legs.
What dream'd my lord? tell me, and I'll requite it
Base inclination and the start of spleen
With lawyers in the vacation, for they sleep between
Henceforth I will not have to do with pity:
Pursue thy life, and live aye with thy name!
Thrown out his angle for my proper life,
For our bad neighbour makes us early stirrers,
A mark so bloody on the business, but
To be a queen in bondage is more vile
And as our vineyards, fallows, meads and hedges,
Nor shall you do mine ear that violence,
As you respect the common good, the state
Most high, most mighty, and most puissant Caesar,
Whose foot spurns back the ocean's roaring tides
Well; I will take him, then torture my wife, pluck
perfect image of life indeed. The better part of
Error i' the bill, sir; error i' the bill.
According to my birth. What do you say?
Pernicious blood-sucker of sleeping men!
I'll go along with you.
Lustig, as the Dutchman says: I'll like a maid the
I shall remember this bold language.
O, let their bodies follow, my dear liege,
With such a zealous laughter, so profound,
To-morrow, if you please to speak with me,
Or, wanting that, with tears distill'd by moans:
Why thou against the church, our holy mother,
Ladies, a general welcome from his grace
Who wears no honesty. Such smiling rogues as these,
comes, and again; catched it again; or whether his
Sauf votre honneur, me understand vell.
Strengthen'd by interchangement of your rings;
would fain see it once, an please God of his grace
If lusty love should go in quest of beauty,
I say, sing.
Who, falling there to find his fellow forth,
To bandy word for word and frown for frown;
On mine own sword? whiles I see lives, the gashes
For love, thou know'st, is full of jealousy.
are so reasonable, for there is not one among them
Never was such a sudden scholar made;
But old folks, many feign as they were dead;
as it hath power, but as it is suffered. Come to
And, by my soul, this pale and angry rose,
But my kisses bring again, bring again;
That my report is just and full of truth.
must comfort you, men must feed you, men must stir
Let us deal justly.
But, in the midst of this bright-shining day,
I have here a dish of doves that I would bestow upon
Enter HAMLET, ROSENCRANTZ, GUILDENSTERN, and others
O Caesar,--
A gentler judgment vanish'd from his lips,
If every of your wishes had a womb.
Britain be fortunate and flourish in peace and plenty.'
It was a vision fair and fortunate:
the war, the Roman wars, in the way of argument,
Comes from my love. But I do see you're moved:
Are we betray'd thus to thy over-view?
Shake in and out the rivet: and at this sport
embrace your own safety and give over this attempt.
Farewell, my masters; to my task will I;
Now useless, boil'd within thy skull! There stand,
And it shall be as all the ocean,
For your fair safety; so, I kiss your hand.
I do arrest your words. Be that you are,
To see their day and them our fortune give:
Time to be honest.
Alarum and excursions. Enter KING EDWARD IV, bringing forth WARWICK wounded
We cannot deal but with the very hand
Mine and your mistress! O, my lord Posthumus!
Bore us some leagues to sea; where they prepared
He gives the bastinado with his tongue:
Speak, shall I call her in? Believe my words,
Hast thou given all to thy two daughters?
We come to speak with him; and you shall not sin,
This is the mouth o' the cell: no noise, and enter.
Do all lie there: it shall be so my care
I would not follow him then.
Our madams mock at us, and plainly say
services thou hast done; which if I have not enough
Who had but newly entertain'd revenge,
And, when I had it, drew myself apart
Enter the Ghost of LADY ANNE
Do give a life: no shepherdess, but Flora
His honour: O, thine honour, Lewis, thine honour!
He doth, my lord, and is become your foe.
I pray you, commend me to Mistress Squash, your
With resolution, wheresoe'er I meet thee--
These Lincoln Washes have devoured them;
Patience, dear niece. Good Titus, dry thine eyes.
You shall ha' it, worthy sir.
My foot my tutor? Put thy sword up, traitor;
May this be so?
Exeunt DUKE FREDERICK, train, and LE BEAU
And give direction: and do but see his vice;
Of him it holds, stands young Plantagenet,
Is he whipp'd?
Rogue, thou hast lived too long.
Farewell, my lord.
Exit
Now, in the names of all the gods at once,
Nor age so eat up my invention,
Neanmoins, je reciterai une autre fois ma lecon
As if he were forgot; and, princes all,
And play'd to take spectators. For behold me
If e'er this coffin drive a-land,
When I shall think: or Phoebus' steeds are founder'd,
Had you such leisure in the time of death
That Edward is escaped from your brother,
The other, when she has obtain'd your eye,
Two of the dangerous consorted traitors
there was very little honour showed in't. For my own
call ladies.
above deck.
in buckram that I told thee of--
A quiet night; and my good mistress will
I have touch'd the highest point of all my greatness;
will also be the bondage of certain ribbons and gloves.
They fight. DOUGLAS kills SIR WALTER BLUNT. Enter HOTSPUR
Judge me, you gods! wrong I mine enemies?
Exeunt severally PRIAM and HECTOR. Alarums
Dost thou love me? I know thou wilt say 'Ay,'
What's that?
'Twere good you do so much for charity.
what o' that?
'A re,' to Plead Hortensio's passion;
By an Athenian eunuch to the harp.'
QUEEN KATHARINE makes no answer, rises out of her  chair, goes about the court, comes to KING HENRY VIII, and kneels at his feet; then speaks
Who comes so fast in silence of the night?
But, either it was different in blood,--
To wish him wrestle with affection,
Except she bend her humour, shall be assured
The winds were love-sick with them; the oars were silver,
Know, noble lord, they have devised a mean
The grave doth gape, and doting death is near;
my state,--
Is nothing kin to foul redemption.
I could not send it,--here it is again,--
Nothing goes right: we would, and we would not.
What we can do, we'll do, to do you service.
Exit
Here is a letter from Queen Hecuba,
pitiful cries they made to us to help them, when,
gavest me,'twas a pennyworth, wast't not?
Marry, that with no man here he is offended;
Ay, to the proof; as mountains are for winds,
For hither we have broken in by force.
'Fly pride,' says the peacock: mistress, that you know.
Nay, look you, sir, he tells you flatly what his
And thereupon I drew my sword on you;
Drawn in the flattering table of her eye.
commander,--
To hopeless restitution, so he might
To re-survey them, we will suddenly
drawer? come, what's the issue?
Thou art the rudeliest welcome to this world
Then they for sudden joy did weep,
That gallant spirit hath aspired the clouds,
Enter COUNTESS and Clown
If not, the city being but of small defence,
Embarquements all of fury, shall lift up
I marvel why I answer'd not again:
Who calls?
Romans, do me right:
Whereat, with blade, with bloody blameful blade,
[Within]  What, ho! my lord, my lord!
As if a man were author of himself
His wit set down to make his valour live
Away, you trifler! Love! I love thee not,
Enobarbus, welcome!
Or else a breath: the combatants being kin
Thou wouldst have changed thy face for a name or thy
The latter end of his commonwealth forgets the
Swelter'd venom sleeping got,
A riding-suit, no costlier than would fit
They never then had sprung like summer flies;
not; but, I am sure, none, unless the fiddler Apollo
That's as much as to say, the sweet youth's in love.
Come in, come in: I'll go get a fire.
Nor feel him where he struck: being an ugly monster,
I am barr'd, like one infectious. My third comfort
to suggest thee from thy master thou talkest of;
expertness in wars; or whether he thinks it were not
that hangs the verses on the trees, wherein Rosalind
court in the morning. That same mad fellow of the
Thou stern, obdurate, flinty, rough, remorseless.
forestall their repair hither, and say you are not
The art itself is nature.
And great affections wrestling in thy bosom
And there assume some other horrible form,
The gilded newt and eyeless venom'd worm,
I would not lose you; and you know yourself,
Commend me to thy lady.
But one that's here, and that's himself, for he
With curses in her mouth, tears in her eyes,
She says your worship means to make
I am sorry for't: the man is a proper man, of mine
But thus his simple truth must be abused
Exit
Neapolitan's, a better bad habit of frowning than
Exit
With one that, in her sex, her years, profession,
richly adorned with pearl, crowned. On each
Loyal and neutral, in a moment? No man:
In aught an eunuch has: 'tis well for thee,
Yet more quarrelling with occasion! Wilt thou show
Nay, stay not to expostulate, make speed;
Now, by the jealous queen of heaven, that kiss
A savour that may strike the dullest nostril
The dishes are uncovered and seen to be full of warm water
SCENE I. Belmont. Avenue to PORTIA'S house.
Only my blood speaks to you in my veins;
Why Somerset should be preferred in this.
Content. 'Tis strange.
man; I would have you think so; but, on my
Drum sounds afar off
our pikes, ere we become rakes: for the gods know I
Are penitent for your default to-day.
I would keep from thee. For your sake, jewel,
As true as truest horse that yet would never tire,
Apollo be my judge!
For thy escape would teach me tyranny,
More dazzled and drove back his enemies
And fall a-cursing, like a very drab,
great as the first in goodness, but greater a great
I mean, sir, for his weapon; but in the imputation
How now, friend Eros!
I combat challenge of this latten bilbo.
Will yield to see his daughter.
A bare-ribb'd death, whose office is this day
You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
Thus we may see,' quoth he, 'how the world wags:
This many summers in a sea of glory,
What, all amort? Rouen hangs her head for grief
Keep Stephen Langton, chosen archbishop
Yes; if there were no other excuse why they should
'Tis not your inky brows, your black silk hair,
It should seem, then, that Dobbin's tail grows
If you'll not here proclaim yourself our king,
Confess'd the vile encounters they have had
Forgive my general and exceptless rashness,
Why then, we did our main opinion crush
Gallants, lads, boys, hearts of gold, all the titles
Why, here's a change indeed in the commonwealth!
Uneath may she endure the flinty streets,
To ashes, ere our blood shall quench that fire:
Far from her nest the lapwing cries away:
The base is right; 'tis the base knave that jars.
Thou dost deliver more or less than truth,
do, not knowing what they do!
For they must all be mask'd and vizarded,
Give colour to my pale cheek with thy blood,
Upon a wheel of fire, that mine own tears
Good lieutenant! good corporal! offer nothing here.
affection to congratulate the princess at her
The nature of your griefs, and whereupon
Which you have not redeem'd; indeed, paid down
But now, my lord, what say you to my suit?
The nimble-footed madcap Prince of Wales,
But lend it rather to thine enemy,
good grace.
Yet heard too much of Phebe's cruelty.
Go, rascals, go, and fetch my supper in.
And let my woes frown on the upper hand.
I did.
What ring was yours, I pray you?
Break too.
And little is to do.
Master-Gunner	Sirrah, thou know'st how Orleans is besieged,
if our sport had gone forward, we had all been made
She is beholding to thee, gentle youth.
There is not chastity enough in language
And like a peacock sweep along his tail;
We then have done you bold and saucy wrongs;
thousand pound ere a' be cured.
I fear my brother Mortimer doth stir
Nor shall not, if I do as I intend.
how you take it!
To every article.
Looks in a glass, that shows what future evils,
To rush into the secret house of death,
My lord--
For that which is not in me?
What cause of suspicion?
Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER and KENT
When mercy seasons justice. Therefore, Jew,
Shows like a riotous inn: epicurism and lust
More than my all is nothing: nor my prayers
To take me to thee, as I was to him
That I am touch'd with madness! Make not impossible
Where I will write. All may be well enough.
Unless she said ' My mind is now turn'd whore.'
That shake us nightly: better be with the dead,
Crown'd with rank fumiter and furrow-weeds,
Enter NYM, BARDOLPH, PISTOL, and Boy
To meet anon, upon your approbation.
For 'tis the mind that makes the body rich;
So dear I loved the man, that I must weep.
Are you sick, Hubert? you look pale to-day:
To fetch her fan, her gloves, her mask, nor nothing?
ANTIPHOLUS
Sent back like Hallowmas or short'st of day.
Come, lead me to the block; bear him my head.
He says they can do nothing in this kind.
An honourable trial.
with his comfort; swallowed his vows whole,
Her waspish-headed son has broke his arrows,
None but that ugly treason of mistrust,
Exeunt
The knife that made it.
That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature
If once it be neglected, ten to one
Shall have more vices than it had before,
Me seemeth good, that, with some little train,
Hath told you Caesar was ambitious:
will run as far as God has any ground. O rare
True or false, it hath made thee earl of
I know my life so even. If your business
Whither?
Be merciful, great duke, to men of mould.
Royally!
Thou hast look'd thyself into my grace,
They fight
Exit
never shall come off, and show me a child begotten
I will add the l'envoy. Say the moral again.
which I called Roderigo. My father was that
To watch the coming of my punish'd duchess:
So much unsettled: this drives me to entreat you
I mock you! no, by heaven.
unlawful solicitation; if not, assure yourself I
We'll visit Caliban my slave, who never
tell him my mind.
I pray thee, Buckingham, go and meet him,
a million: thou owest me thy love.
Will you not, sons?
It is too starved a subject for my sword.
And well become the agent; 't may, I grant;
and puts me her white hand to his cloven chin--
And He that might the vantage best have took
Here stands the spring whom you have stain'd with mud,
Do to this body what extremes you can;
Let him come in.
my two mistresses: what a beast am I to slack it!
Yes, he is dead; how wilt thou do for a father?
O, peace! now he's deeply in: look how
Some gentle order; and then we shall be blest
And turn again unto the warlike French.
And like the watchful minutes to the hour,
On most part of their fleet.
Would it be better, madam, than I am?
And to the nightingale's complaining notes
honorificabilitudinitatibus: thou art easier
Then gather strength and march unto him straight:
O God! did Romeo's hand shed Tybalt's blood?
Henry King of England,  and c.
Hum!
'Twere good, methinks, to steal our marriage;
Now is the time of help; your eye in Scotland
That we have bled together. Coriolanus
Were present when she finish'd.
ACT V
We'll consecrate the steps that Ajax makes
daring the reports of my tongue.
Peace! stand aside: the company parts.
obscuring and hiding from me all gentleman-like
Thy Brutus bid me give it thee, and I
Odours, odours.
Two lads that thought there was no more behind
BRUTUS and LUCILIUS converse apart
Your younger princely son; he, sir, was lapp'd
leads to the broad gate and the great fire.
Thou know'st I do: I call'd thee by thy name.
Then I will kiss your lips, Kate.
Which make such wanton gambols with the wind,
of earnest.
Deserves the extremest death.
an honourable gentleman.
Did come to see you.
We still have known thee for a holy man.
He gives me so much of mine own, as I
apples. But come; since this bar in law makes us
uncle Capulet, his wife and daughters; my fair niece
To sunder them that yoke so well together.
The manner of their taking may appear
Be near me, that I may remember you.
Fall'n in the practise of a damned slave,
And in the cup an union shall he throw,
He thinks that you should bear me on your shoulders.
Should outlive Caesar: we shall find of him
Her father loved me; oft invited me;
One that ne'er dream'd a joy beyond his pleasure;
He wooes both high and low, both rich and poor,
Which on your just proceeding I'll keep off,
Do you note
Stands in the gap and trade of moe preferments,
It is the cause, it is the cause, my soul,--
Why fled you from the court? and whither? These,
Come, come, have with you. Wot you what, my lord?
Fear him not, Caesar; he's not dangerous;
Come, night; come, Romeo; come, thou day in night;
This paper, thus seal'd up; and, I am sure,
But I will lift the down-trod Mortimer
My daughter Katharina is to be married:
Close up his eyes and draw the curtain close;
I am his fortune's vassal, and I send him
ANTIPHOLUS
Have not the grace to grace it with such show.
And shall I have?
Yet not the son, I will not call him son
This will prove a brave kingdom to me, where I shall
No medicine in the world can do thee good;
With his next vantage.
Before his sister should her body stoop
Wherefore, bold peasant,
My naked weapon is out: quarrel, I will back thee.
there's money for thee.
Tweaks me by the nose? gives me the lie i' the throat,
Drum afar off
Our crown, our life, and all that we can ours,
Enter a Messenger
To LONGAVILLE
Of strong prevailment in unharden'd youth:
An if it please thee! why, assure thee, Lucius,
O well a day, Lady, if he be not drawn now! we
A more content in course of true delight
When the moon shone, we did not see the candle.
Had you first died, and he been thus trod down,
Varro's
To seek new friends and stranger companies.
For even to vice
I tender not thy beauteous princely daughter!
O Hermione,
Whispers CHARMIAN
I saw him hold Lord Percy at the point
Lending me this acquaintance. I pray you, go
Why, then 'tis time to arm and give direction.
Uncle, even in the glasses of thine eyes
What comfort is for Claudio?
Obey, audacious traitor; kneel for grace.
Hath borne his faculties so meek, hath been
I'll follow you, and tell what answer
they make you not then the better answer, you may
This is not she. O madness of discourse,
Be made as soft as yours and let their palates
of natures: she, having the truth of honour in her,
Edward Plantagenet, arise a knight;
not horribly afraid? doth not thy blood thrill at
Let us complain to them what fools were here,
Steep'd me in poverty to the very lips,
The heavens were all on fire, the earth did tremble.
Not he; the queen.
An I thought that, I'ld forswear it. I'll ride home
And will, no doubt, tempt him to any thing.
Despiteful and intolerable wrongs!
To lay one in, another out to have.
Witness these trenches made by grief and care,
Than Buckingham and his rash-levied army.
To send the old and miserable king
Here's yet some liquor left.
Be ruled by me, forget to think of her.
I thought you lord of more true gentleness.
I pray you, give me leave to go from hence;
I'll peck you o'er the pales else.
How now! how now!
Light, gentlemen; I'll bind it with my shirt.
I will proclaim thee, Angelo; look for't:
Do not presume too much upon my love;
They fight. WARWICK comes; CLIFFORD flies
and anon falleth like a crab on the face of terra,
Well, girl, thou weep'st not so much for his death,
The lineal glory of your royal house,
horse upon our own wings, and to rend our own soldiers!
And come ye now to tell me John hath made
But will you hear? the king is my love sworn.
O, he is wounded; I thank the gods for't.
Is it for him you do envy me so?
Or whether gasted by the noise I made,
And spit upon him, whilst I say he lies,
From Rome.
Thou speak'st it well. Go, father, with thy son.
Where we were lodgers at the Pegasus.
Garnish'd and deck'd in modest complement,
Being moved, he will not spare to gird the gods.
But, would you undertake another suit,
For Hamlet and the trifling of his favour,
[Aside]
this intolerable deal of sack! What there is else,
It is my business too. Farewell.
persuasion; and I doubt not you sustain what you're
Ay, and melodious were it, would you sing it.
God and good angel fight on Richmond's side;
As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
'You must amend your drunkenness.'
She did deceive her father, marrying you;
Where oxlips and the nodding violet grows,
The gods throw stones of sulphur on me, if
Must know and own; this thing of darkness!
As they us to our trenches followed.
arithmetic! Why the devil came you between us? I
thankfulness. For your own gifts, make yourselves
The monk might be deceived; and that 'twas dangerous for him
Who may, in the ambush of my name, strike home,
Of my true mother.
feigning; and lovers are given to poetry, and what
Ay me! what news? why dost thou wring thy hands?
To make a faithless error in your ears:
Exeunt Lords
Of laughing with a sigh?--a note infallible
Nay, that's past praying for: I have peppered two
Of dull Octavia. Shall they hoist me up
Giving letters
Brother of England, you blaspheme in this.
And for my means, I'll husband them so well,
'Tribunes!' 'Patricians!' 'Citizens!' 'What, ho!'
By this reckoning he is more shrew than she.
'Tis certain, every man that dies ill, the ill upon
conscience, sir, I do not care for you: if that be
Why, madam, that is to the Isle of Man;
Were then my fellows; now they are my men.
here, Cassio,
Where souls do couch on flowers, we'll hand in hand,
Though destiny say no. Be merry, gentle;
What louring star now envies thy estate,
Will lose his beauty; yet the gold bides still,
I never shall endure her: dear my lord,
Of princely fellows, shalt hereafter find
And where I did begin, there shall I end;
Since I came to this isle: and in the morn
Do so. This jest shall cost me some expense.
Exeunt
Offend you in my life; never loved Cassio
In law, what plea so tainted and corrupt,
Well, my lord.
What sayest thou?
False allegations to o'erthrow his state?
And, to conclude, reproach and beggary
you are my eldest brother; and, in the gentle
Persever in that clear way thou goest,
Enter VALENTINE
Stay: whence are you?
Exeunt LUCIUS and Lords
too picked, too spruce, too affected, too odd, as it
Then the liars and swearers are fools,
What, gone, my lord, and bid me not farewell!
Royal sir,
A boy?
No, not these twenty years.
Or may I never--
And in the end meet the old course of death,
I am sorry for't, my lord.
touch, a quick venue of wit! snip, snap, quick and
We'll betray him finely.
Behold, I choose thee, Tamora, for my bride,
My thoughts were like unbridled children, grown
But, sure, he's proud, and yet his pride becomes him:
Why art thou yet so fair? shall I believe
was this directed to you?
And that to hear an old man sing
a knight's daughter,
Dies
Such terrible impression made the dream.
The sword, the mace, the crown imperial,
But this our purpose now is twelve month old,
He seems indifferent,
And doubling that, most holy. Your means abroad,
persuaded I will marry her, out of her own love and
Exit ARIEL
the lover's, which is all these: but it is a
While greasy Joan doth keel the pot.
O Lord!
I shall find time, Cassius, I shall find time.
No, sir, she shall not, though you take her part.
Exit
I care not whither, for I beg no favour,
there would be none left to rail upon thee, and then
To draw him from his holy exercise.
To his own portion! and what expense by the hour
ANTIPHOLUS
What manner o' thing is your crocodile?
Falls
Behold, sir.
sum of money, be assailed by robbers and die in
Make we our march towards Birnam.
Good, good, my lord; the secrets of nature
From whom you now must steal and take no leave,
They might have lived to bear and he to taste
fornication, adultery, and all uncleanliness there.
Not till he hears how Antony is touch'd
Traitors ensteep'd to clog the guiltless keel,--
What's the matter?
Sun that warms you here shall shine on me;
May be the letter moved him;
To enter publicly: him I'll desire
sins of my mother should be visited upon me.
ACT I
Betwixt your eyes and night?
Gentlemen, rise: his highness is not well.
She shall, she shall.
Go, drag the villain hither by the hair;
Honest goodfellows, ah, put up, put up;
Enter our gates; dispose of us and ours;
Go, Pindarus, get higher on that hill;
Good uncle, take you in this barbarous Moor,
Come on, then; wear the favours most in sight.
Make your full reference freely to my lord,
He'll never hear him.
Yet oftentimes he goes but mean-apparell'd.
Because he loves her, he despiseth me;
To make it truster of your own report
Exit
'Tis the Lord Hastings, the king's chiefest friend.
If, one by one, you wedded all the world,
Enter PAGE, SHALLOW, and SLENDER
If she had not a spirit to resist.
Exit TAMORA
Lodged in the abbey; where the reverend abbot,
He bow'd his nature, never known before
And falls on the other.
Your tongue, though but bastards and syllables
The barren, touched in this holy chase,
'O, Jesus bless us, he is born with teeth!'
To do in these fierce vanities? I wonder
words to the Lord Lysimachus.
a fig for Peter!
the tongs and the bones.
You know him well?
To GONERIL
Thus says AEneas; one that knows the youth
pulled down?
By day and night he wrongs me; every hour
For we do fear the law? What company
And only live by gazing.
flowers o' the season
wilful Actaeon; and to these violent proceedings all
If any such there be, heaven pardon him!
Believe me, sir, she is the goodliest woman
With whom an upright zeal to right prevails
And threefold vengeance tend upon your steps!
Say that I linger'd with you at your shop
Which with her dowry shall be counterpoised.
I have not yet made known to Mariana
Soft! who are you? Sir Walter Blunt: there's honour
of affection would deliver me from the reprobate
Than Venus, or those pamper'd animals
His presence at the tyrant's feast, I hear
And I may live to do you kindness if
Both of his truth and him, which was too far,
Tut, man, I mean thou'lt lose the flood, and, in
Degenerate bastard! I'll not trouble thee.
firago. I had a pass with him, rapier, scabbard and
clown, thou perishest; or, to thy better
A shrewd knave and an unhappy.
And, with them, words of so sweet breath composed
You made great Juno angry.
Enter below, multitudes, with halters about their necks
hand? come, tell us your reason: what sayest thou to this?
What is the reason of this terrible summons?
complain of? Come me to what was done to her.
Have I had children's voices?
For this new-married man approaching here,
As worthy cause I have to fear I am--
And the device he bears upon his shield
For the red blood reigns in the winter's pale.
Each fair instalment, coat, and several crest,
I know our safety is to follow them;
SCENE III. A room in a prison.
Even where his lustful eye or savage heart,
They retire
I thank you gentle servant: 'tis very clerkly done.
Where zeal strives to content, and the contents
Fair leave and large security. How may
Did break i' the rinsing.
A damned saint, an honourable villain!
What she should shame to know herself
Enter, with drum and colours, HENRY BOLINGBROKE, DUKE OF YORK, NORTHUMBERLAND, Attendants, and forces
[Aside]  These be fine things, an if they be
Look back into your mighty ancestors:
Proud setter up and puller down of kings!
Up once again; put spirit in the French:
Enter a fourth Gentleman
and waiting-women. So, bless thee, master!
And hid the gold within the letter mention'd,
To shallow rivers, to whose falls-
She's dead, deceased, she's dead; alack the day!
Like a proud river peering o'er his bounds?
Exit
Enter HUBERT
The good in conversation,
Which still should go with Antony.
If thou wilt condescend to be my--
The ground that gave them first has them again:
To-morrow will I wear it on my helm,
I will lay him down such reasons for this adventure
My life upon her faith! Honest Iago,
Till you know better how to handle it.
What, what, my lord! are you so choleric
Exit
I'll have no father, if you be not he:
what's thyself?
An hour since: Cleomenes and Dion,
The hum of either army stilly sounds,
Enter, from the cave, BELARIUS; GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS following
And at the deanery, where a priest attends,
O, you sir, you, come you hither, sir: who am I,
after, a wonderful sweet air, with admirable rich
She vied so fast, protesting oath on oath,
general dependants as in the duke himself also and
I'll make a voyage to the Holy Land,
hip to hip.
Your lady's person: is she ready?
The incense of a vow, a holy vow,
And give as soft attachment to thy senses
Spakest thou of Juliet? how is it with her?
That he's your fixed enemy, and revoke
And that, without delay, their arguments
Alack, I have no eyes.
Why, I pray you?
Madam, there is alighted at your gate
He calls again; I pray you, answer him.
It must not be; there is no power in Venice
When he is turn'd to poison?
Peace, Tranio!
And in our name, what she requires; add more,
Mark me with what violence she first loved the Moor,
the fool not dry: bid the dishonest man mend
therefore tremble and depart.
Who's there, besides foul weather?
I rather will subject me to the malice
Wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world?
Mine honest friend,
Persuade me rather to be slave and sumpter
souls out of one weaver? shall we do that?
the moon out of her sphere, if she would continue
Return unto thy lord; commend me to him:
It is thyself, mine own self's better part,
That will allow me very worth his service.
Gentlemen, God save you. If I may be bold,
Having call'd them from the deep! O, still
My lord Bassanio and my gentle lady,
Thy ear is liable; thy food is such
But of the finer natures? by some severals
Which is a great way growing on the south,
Now, for my life, she's wandering to the Tower,
Impatient answers from my gentle tongue?
My lords, at once: the cause why we are met
And, by my troth, I think thou lovest me well.
Come, bring them away: if these be good people in
Well, tell me now what lady is the same
I will encounter darkness as a bride,
You felt than make't my boast.
If Warwick be so near as men report.
Must I not serve a long apprenticehood
That young swain that you saw here but erewhile,
That ever I should live to see thee dead!
O sweetest, fairest lily!
Stain'd with the variation of each soil
whose hand, she being now at hand, thou shalt soon
shoeing-horn in a chain, hanging at his brother's
Well, go with me and be not so discomfited:
upstairs and downstairs; his eloquence the parcel of
If that it be the work of any hand.
Troilus, farewell! one eye yet looks on thee
And am I thus rewarded? 'tis not well, lords.
Will we return unto thy father's house
Have all limed bushes to betray thy wings,
It is his.
It was my breath that blew this tempest up,
And had he match'd according to his state,
Or if he do, let it at least be said
There's none within.
But if I could, by Him that gave me life,
If I can catch him once upon the hip,
I would not wed her for a mine of gold.
There's not a minute of our lives should stretch
Nothing so full of heart. But peace, AEneas,
therefore deny it not.
Shall change all griefs and quarrels into love.
'Tis good. Go to the gate; somebody knocks.
Go, sound thy trumpet in the market-place;
I say, my lord, they have deserved death.
But lay down our proportions to defend
Every offence is not a hate at first.
From meaning treason to our royal person
Come, Kate, sit down; I know you have a stomach.
Therein behold themselves: I say again,
I tell thee, fellow, there are none want eyes to
Because you want the grace that others have,
Where thou shalt rest, that thou mayst hear of us
Unless our halberds did shut up his passage.
Work you then.
What England says, say briefly, gentle lord;
Who marks the waxing tide grow wave by wave,
Why, what a candy deal of courtesy
Meantime, forget this new-fall'n dignity
'Tis Agamemnon's wish, and great Achilles
In such a parley should I answer thee.
Peace be to France, if France in peace permit
How can you say to me, I am a king?
No, faith, is't not, Kate: but thy speaking of my
Being a divine, a ghostly confessor,
That he in sport doth call his Rosalind.
Dieu vous garde, monsieur.
Like tears that did their own disgrace bewail.
Withdraw yourselves, and leave us here alone.
Why, hath your principal made known unto you who I am?
A noble boy! Who would not do thee right?
Ay, for these slips have made him noted long:
the courtesy of it is so fearful. Speak your office.
Whereto we are bound, together with thy victory,
that I can write my name.
Come quickly, Montague, or I am dead.
Peace, silence! Brutus speaks.
Sometime puts forth. In your affairs, my lord,
Must render up myself.
In all submission and humility
Therefore, to the war!
Thou must be married to no man but me;
Nay, I'll ne'er believe a madman till I see his
As well as I can, madam.
O, I could play the woman with mine eyes
Set we our squadrons on yond side o' the hill,
Get me ink and paper:
Die, frantic wretch, for this accursed deed!
To heaven.
Is by a forged process of my death
This is a dear manikin to you, Sir Toby.
Belike, boy, then, you are in love; for last
You hold a fair assembly; you do well, lord:
Of bold-faced victory. Then leaden age,
If I can cheque my erring love, I will;
These tidings nip me, and I hang the head
As in a theatre, whence they gape and point
Sick now! droop now! this sickness doth infect
I must not think there are
more condoling.
Come, come, you have been too rough, something
Lest they desire upon this push to trouble
SCENE VI. Near the camp of Cominius.
Hold; get you gone, be strong and prosperous
The rather, if you could devise it so
Born in Verona, old Antonio's son:
Even pushes 'gainst our heart: the party tried
It may not be.
tooth-ache: but a man that were to sleep your
I hold my life as dear as you do yours;
The want whereof doth daily make revolt
Aside
How low soever the matter, I hope in God for high words.
But more of this hereafter. You, Diana,
Sir, I thank God, I have been so well brought up
And say 'These wounds I had on Crispin's day.'
Remember me at court; where I was taught
The poor advanced makes friends of enemies.
Which now came from him.
And at thy feet I kneel, with tears of joy,
Last time, I danced attendance on his will
And this thy son's blood cleaving to my blade
I cross'd the seas on purpose and on promise
And, by the glorious worth of my descent,
that you are little better than false knaves; and it
By the Lord, I'll be a traitor then, when thou art king.
Wherein, they say, you shine: your sum of parts
When you shall come to clearer knowledge, that
there's an end.
Thou hast spoken all already, unless thou canst say
Most barbarous, most degenerate! have you madded.
Your reeking villany.
And he shall say you are not well to-day:
O, for my beads! I cross me for a sinner.
Ay, sir, and very learned.
Run to the Capitol, and nothing else?
gentleman; whom I commend to you as a noble friend
The posterior of the day, most generous sir, is
A lip of much contempt, speeds from me and
To fall before the lion than the wolf!
To this great fairy I'll commend thy acts,
Began to scold and raise up such a storm
Sound a flourish. Enter CHARLES, ALENCON, and REIGNIER, marching with drum and Soldiers
To keep mine own, excuse it how she can.
One word, sweet queen:
Not by a public minister of justice,
And tell me how you would bestow yourself.
ANTIPHOLUS
You are contented to be led in triumph
Aside
I understand you, sir; 'tis well begged.
So disguise shall, by the disguised,
Which tells me in that glory once he was;
Where rather I'll expect victorious life
Show me the very wound of this ill news:
Came on my guard; and at thy tent is now
To what is passed already.
Its tenderness, and make itself a pastime
Rescue, fair lord, or else the day is lost!
And of women.
am I; go to then, there's sympathy: you are merry,
And yet a thousand times it answers 'no.'
having the world for your labour, tis a wrong in your
Faster than gnats in cobwebs; but her eyes,--
It warm'd thy father's heart with proud desire
I swear to you. I think Helen loves him better than Paris.
Why, there 'tis; so say I too.
How now! are you sadder than you were before? How
of his own judgments, wherein so curiously he had
More, she's a traitor and Camillo is
Master, master! news, old news, and such news as
That granted, how canst thou believe an oath?
Than yours so branchless. But, as you requested,
That look into me with considerate eyes:
assure ye, it was a buck of the first head.
I warrant thou art a merry fellow and carest for nothing.
for the nonce, to immask our noted outward garments.
Unless a thousand marks be levied,
Which his own will shall have desire to drink:
I have too much believed mine own suspicion:
Distinction, with a broad and powerful fan,
No, nor Hector is not Troilus in some degrees.
Misthink the king and not be satisfied!
My date of life out for his sweet life's loss.
Sound them, it doth become the mouth as well;
And if thy poor devoted suppliant may
Subscribes
That he shall shrink under my courtesy.
To bear our fortunes in our own strong arms,
By me thou shalt have justice at his hands.
Than his that shakes for age and feebleness:
I cry thee mercy:
And stain'd the beauty of a fair queen's cheeks
Have wish'd that noble Brutus had his eyes.
At no time broke my faith, would not betray
SCENE III. The same. Before the gates.
Upon thy tongue as in my thought: now, good now,
Have by the very cunning of the scene
Ah, so much interest have I in thy sorrow
Being so great, I have no need to beg.
Exit
Tut, tut; good enough to toss; food for powder, food
And may direct his course as please himself,
I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot,
Was the first man that leap'd; cried, 'Hell is empty
Though we upon this mountain's basis by
Lay on our royal sword your banish'd hands;
combat that 'twixt joy and sorrow was fought in
the service, and the tied! Why, man, if the river
That thou her maid art far more fair than she:
Take heed of perjury; thou art on thy deathbed.
Come to great confusion:
How many would the peaceful city quit,
Let his arms alone;
[Within]  Right, sir; I'll tell you when, an you tell
No, unpin me here.
Re-enter ARIEL before: then ALONSO, with a  frantic gesture, attended by GONZALO;  SEBASTIAN and ANTONIO in like manner,  attended by ADRIAN and FRANCISCO   they all  enter the circle which PROSPERO had made,  and there stand charmed; which PROSPERO observing, speaks:
Within these forty hours Surrey durst better
To make a more requital to your love!
We are tougher, brother,
Be free and healthful,--so tart a favour
Why, no.
So much as lank'd not.
Despised the Athenian maid;
He is there: see what humour he is in; and I will
And in assemblies too.
conscience: and so I leave you.
My pretty cousins, you mistake me much;
Look,'when his infant fortune came to age,'
Enter a Messenger, hastily
The remnant northward, lying off from Trent.
Would he were gelt that had it, for my part,
The goodliest weapons of his armoury
Found out the remedy. How would you be,
ANTIPHOLUS
The duke being at the Rose, within the parish
That were to enlard his fat already pride
You know the cause, air, of my standing here.
The blood upon your visage dries; 'tis time
The effect of my intent is to cross theirs:
On him I lay what you would lay on me,
Do calm the fury of this mad-bred flaw.
will you go, Mistress Page?
Alack. I love myself. Wherefore?  for any good
Give me thy hand,
therefore consider of his ransom; which must
What say you, then, to Falconbridge, the young baron
Spirits, which by mine art
That drop of blood that's calm proclaims me bastard,
Our sufferance vainly: now the time is flush,
So like a courtier, contempt nor bitterness
Go, seek him: tell him I would speak with him.
monstrous villain!
I pray thee, tell me then that he is well.
Pucelle, that witch, that damned sorceress,
Enter PERICLES
O, that your lordship were but now confessor
Whilst Bolingbroke, through our security,
entail from all remainders, and a perpetual
So to offend him still. This night's the time
And thereto add such reasons of your own
See, where he comes: so please you, step aside;
me, complexions that liked me and breaths that I
the fire too. Come, talk not of her: you shall find
Alas, how fiery and how sharp he looks!
The commonwealth hath daily run to wreck;
Lives, sir.
'Tis he the common people love so much;
A lie that it must bear? Well, I will do't:
And make pursuit where he did mean no chase.
No, trust me; she is peevish, sullen, froward,
know straight our purpose: choughs' language,
A heart unspotted is not easily daunted.
To foster it, nor ever to preserve.
And they have wish'd that Lucius were their emperor.
To some she beggar and compounded thee
Even fall upon my life.
Whose fall the mark of his ambition is.
I, thus neglecting worldly ends, all dedicated
Methinks I feel this youth's perfections
Your grace mistakes; only to be brief
My good lord, have great care
And gentlewomen wear such caps as these
We will untread the steps of damned flight,
questions, and by them answer.
prune; nor no more truth in thee than in a drawn
freedom: but you are all recreants and dastards,
And even for that do I love you the more.
So fly I from her that would be my wife.
That laid the sentence of dread banishment
distinctly billeted, already in the entertainment,
Hath pluck'd him after.
Unto our sister Bona.
Thou makest thy knife keen; but no metal can,
I see it feelingly.
Ay, therein Clarence shall not want his part.
And either victory, or else a grave.
Shards, flints and pebbles should be thrown on her;
My lady's honour: what became of him
suddenly call you, come forth, and without any pause
kindness of our profession, she has me her quirks,
your complexion, shall keep the body of it ever
Whose thankless natures--O abhorred spirits!--
Place you that side; I'll take the charge of this:
Though Fortune, visible an enemy,
Half won is match well made; match, and well make it;
not with fifty of them, I am a bunch of radish: if
What, art thou hurt?
What, did these rent lines show some love of thine?
Then shall I swear to Kate, and you to me;
The Anthropophagi and men whose heads
Early and late, debating to and fro
Hail!
This Helena, old Nedar's Helena:
'Twould drink the cup and all.
There let him stand, and rave, and cry for food;
To have practised more the whipstock than the lance.
there's no going but by their consent: therefore I
That we for thee may glorify the Lord.
Know what it is to meet Achilles angry:
hath been since an ape-bearer; then a
A joyful mother of two goodly sons;
Ay, my lord; they stay upon your patience.
Through it do well, I do not relish well
Look'd pale when they did hear of Clarence' death?
One that but performs
Thy demon, that's thy spirit which keeps thee, is
Nothing ill come near thee!
We are no tell-tales, madam; fear you not.
Which done, she took the fruits of my advice;
When I was born:
Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply:
It shall be with such strict and severe covenants
From that contented hap which I enjoy'd,
Attended by my men: I will make bold
What say'st thou, noble heart?
For now we sit to chat as well as eat.
Should a villain say so,
Kent from me, she hath lost her best man, and exhort
What hast here? ballads?
And never interrupt you.
No, my lord, nor likely to be slain; for they have
Mend 'em, for shame, my lords. Is this your comfort?
He calls us rebels, traitors; and will scourge
Sir, I could perceive nothing at all from her; no,
But were I not the better part made mercy,
I am best pleased to be from such a deed.
Je te prie, m'enseignez: il faut que j'apprenne a
Go, Eros, send his treasure after; do it;
Whilst you were here o'erwhelmed with your grief--
if I have horns to make one mad, let the proverb go
Measured to look upon you; whom he loves--
Enter Chamberlain
Shall live the lease of nature, pay his breath
I have inquired, so has my husband, man by man, boy
I do not greatly care to be deceived,
Unto whose grace our passion is as subject
That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
Is not thy master with him? who, were't so,
With fiery quickness: therefore prepare thyself;
Speak, sirs; how was it?
Young Ferdinand, whom they suppose is drown'd,
But prove a chief offender in the same?
I never loved my brother in my life.
To leave that latest which concerns him first,
[Aside]  That you are both decipher'd, that's the news,
This morning to them.
That, in his secret doom, out of my blood
And private in his chamber pens himself,
Yet from my dugs he drew not this deceit.
Is only bitter to him, only dying,
I will have none so near else. Learn this, brother,
hotly call'd for;
office to say is come, was faithfully confirmed by
You're a dog.
To answer by the method, in the first of his heart.
Never fear that: if he be so resolved,
That now on Pompey's basis lies along
Yet you desire to marry.
Scorning advice, read the conclusion then:
I have more care to stay than will to go:
I would dissemble with my nature where
If you swear still, your recompense is still
In doing wrong extenuates not wrong,
Thunder. Enter the three Witches
Lovers can see to do their amorous rites
Exit Haberdasher
that frailty hath examples for his falling, I should
In Britain where was he
Not that I know.
I do desire the like.
You would have slipt like him; but he, like you,
Fasten'd and fix'd the shame on't in himself,
And was beheaded. Thus the Mortimers,
Another hit; what say you?
BISHOP
Well fitted in arts, glorious in arms:
Madam, you'll find it so. You wrong your virtues
Hail, King of Scotland!
To lend me arms and aid when I required them;
From this time forth I never will speak word.
That she did make defect perfection,
Good captain, will you give me a copy of the sonnet
Shall't be to-night at supper?
mightst not lose the dues of rejoicing, by being
If I could have remembered a gilt counterfeit, thou
I will not give my part of this sport for a pension
I wear it for a memorable honour;
To love fair Silvia, shall I be forsworn;
Now, to our perjury to add more terror,
SCENE II. Hall in Capulet's house.
Break up the gates, I'll be your warrantize.
Bid sorrow wag, cry 'hem!' when he should groan,
Methinks they should invite them without knives;
Why, then, though loath, yet must I be content:
For I will board her, though she chide as loud
And so proceed accordingly.
Which entered their frail shins: at last I left them
If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter
And I am prest unto it: therefore, speak.
You have told me too many of him already, sir, if
And hurt my brother.
No matter: get thee gone,
Well, my lord,
As Ovid be an outcast quite abjured:
The best of happiness,
place appointed: I'll be judgement by mine host of
life, to make thee a double-dealer; which, out of
Exit Second Clown
swallowed with yest and froth, as you'ld thrust a
If that you love Prince Pericles, forbear.
Exit
cold as any stone; then I felt to his knees, and
I Pompey am,--
the modesty of nature: for any thing so overdone is
What will be said? what mockery will it be,
Plague on't, an I thought he had been valiant and so
That everything I look on seemeth green:
After your way his tale pronounced shall bury
De chin.
Who spake of brotherhood? who spake of love?
To the Secretary
To rest without a spot for evermore.
And downright languish'd. Leave me solely: go,
Ay, marry, will we, sir; and we'll be waited on.
And now I must be as unjust to Thurio.
Sir, even now
And give him half: and, for thy vigour,
Here in the prison. Do me the common right
If ever Bassianus, Caesar's son,
I do remember how my father said
And now I do bethink me, it was she
Beats as of flesh and blood; and, since I saw thee,
And by his rare example made the coward
Ha!
conversant in general services, and more remarkable
he would have deserved it: sixpence a day in
My lord, you pass not here.
And save me so much talking.
me like a dog; and told me I had white hairs in my
That I crave death more willingly than mercy;
And every true heart weeps for't: all that dare
Exeunt
Speak, who began this? on thy love, I charge thee.
To be our regent in these parts of France:
all the gibbets and pressed the dead bodies. No eye
that are fallible: tomorrow you must die; go to
But not the form of what he should attend.
Beside, my lord, the sooner to effect
Forbid the smiling courtesy of love
And pick strong matter of revolt and wrath
In England
What would you have me do? I am a subject,
Though ink be made of gall.
They have all been touch'd and found base metal, for
Who had the world as my confectionary,
I have forgot that name, and that name's woe.
You can say none of this: well, grant it then
And shall, or him we will accompany.
a foolish knight,'--
My hope is gone, now Suffolk is deceased.
To one of woman born.
ANTIPHOLUS
Well, to our work alive. What do you think
recompense for your love, to lay any of them on you.
And there an end; but now they rise again,
Beg often our own harms, which the wise powers
He is dishonour'd by a man which ever
Loaden with honour. Say my request's unjust,
Ha! little honour to be much believed,
In the restoring his bereaved sense?
given him notice that the Duke of Cornwall and Regan
All the better; we shall be the more marketable.
More torches here! Come on then, let's to bed.
a companion of the king's, who is intituled, nomi-
And all to have the noble duke alive.
Speak, of all loves! I swoon almost with fear.
Your master will be dead ere you return;
will be a black matter for the king that led them to
[Reads]  'So it is, besieged with sable-coloured
Destruction on my head, if my bad blame
Remember our reward, when the deed is done.
They are not yet come back. But I have spoke
And what poor duty cannot do, noble respect
Come, Margaret; God, our hope, will succor us.
Why, therefore Warwick came to seek you out;
That admiration did not whoop at them:
Not enough barbarous, had not o'erboard thrown me
Which to reduce into our former favour
Why, there is it: come sing me a bawdy song; make
If you do love me, you will find me out.
unaccommodated man is no more but such a poor bare,
Your fire-new stamp of honour is scarce current.
besides the king to effect your suits, here is man
I'll make one too.
Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, and IRAS
Sharp-tooth'd unkindness, like a vulture, here:
Good wombs have borne bad sons.
But since he hath
O'er ladies ' lips, who straight on kisses dream,
The pauses that he makes.
ANTIPHOLUS
That man that hath a tongue, I say, is no man,
My heart is sorry for your daughter's death:
Such fierce alarums both of hope and fear,
The discontents repair, and men's reports
Unless you have a codpiece to stick pins on.
Standing like stone with thee.
SCENE III. The same.
It seems she hangs upon the cheek of night
I call thee coward! I'll see thee damned ere I call
Dispatch, sweet gentlemen, and follow me.
I see thy age and dangers make thee dote.
You that be noble; help him, young and old!
Primo, secundo, tertio, is a good play; and the old
Till you return at night. Goes Fleance with you?
I have led you oft: carry me now, good friends,
What, Brutus, are you stirr'd so early too?
Who, I, my lord I we know each other's faces,
Here comes Boyet.
but to the place where; it standeth north-north-east
More than indeed belong'd to such a trifle,
of the prison; give him leave to escape hence, he
Exeunt
ACT IV
ANTIPHOLUS
Partly for that her promised proportions
I pray you, speak not; he grows worse and worse;
He is at hand; and Pindarus is come
It was both impious and unnatural
Pardon me, Proteus: all I can is nothing
Enter a Pursuivant
We'll thwack him hence with distaffs.
Thy Caesar knighted me; my youth I spent
Things that are known alike; which are not wholesome
Fair lady,--
So, haply, are they friends to Antony.
I come to cope.
Or else the law of Athens yields you up--
By your leave, ho!
There is no answer made.
Is practise only. Give me my servant forth.
Had the fore-hand and vantage of a king.
great revenue! heaven bless thee from a tutor, and
Lord, Lord! to see what folly reigns in us!
I am not valiant neither,
no good to us: though the wisdom of nature can
O, fellow, come, the song we had last night.
To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things
Here in Vienna, sir.
More feathers to our wings; for, God before,
Sir, his wife some two months since fled from his
Sir, I most humbly pray you to deliver
and here, Tom, take all the money that I have. O
picture. Alas the day, how loath you are to offend
'My thoughts do harbour with my Silvia nightly,
Are lethargied--Ha! waking? 'tis not so.
Therefore I will not disdain.
For Richard, in the view of many lords,
And since I have not much importuned you;
'Tis unnatural,
The contrary doth make thee wonder'd at:
To press before thy father to a grave?
Is slander to your royal dignity.
Here, sir; as foolish as I was before.
The more shame for ye: holy men I thought ye,
To see great Pompey pass the streets of Rome:
Exit, with the body
I will tell her.
Come, sir, what letters had you late from France?
Sir, it is
Steals ere we can effect them. You remember
Faith yes;
discover his government.
That winter should cut off our spring-time so.
Women nearest; but men, men are the things
O woful time!
[Aside to CLAUDIO]  You are a villain; I jest not:
why, it must be requited. I hear how I am censured:
Than have seen this.
your worship, and my suit is--
That I have room with Rome to curse awhile!
Ghost
Thou art a widow; yet thou art a mother,
SCENE V. Another part of the field.
Me?
By underhand corrupted foul injustice,
Of this fair couple, meets he on the way
Exceeds what we expected.
His tears run down his beard, like winter's drops
o' the air.
And though I have for barbarism spoke more
that am a butcher.
We must, with all our majesty and skill,
To do him all the grace and good I could.
Is ebony like her? O wood divine!
He said he was gentle, but unfortunate;
must your daughter and her gentlewomen carry. The
the alehouse. What miserable praise hast thou for
By moonshine do the green sour ringlets make,
Good Aaron, wilt thou help to chop it off?
Have mercy on me!
We must of force dispense with this decree;
And we must root him out. From your affairs
Made daily motions for our home return:
I'll strike, and cry 'Take all.'
The harmony of this peace. The vision
Reverend appearer, no;
A token from her daughter, my fair love,
Enter a Gentlewoman
What say you to a letter from your friends
I will proclaim my name about the field:
am dejected; I am not able to answer the Welsh
For certain drops of salt, your city Rome,
I arrest thee of high treason, by the name of
O, she was nought; and long of her it was
Here comes the emperor.
ACT IV
Enter at one door, HORNER, the Armourer, and his  Neighbours, drinking to him so much that he is drunk;  and he enters with a drum before him and his staff  with a sand-bag fastened to it; and at the other  door PETER, his man, with a drum and sand-bag, and 'Prentices drinking to him
And I forgive and quite forget old faults,
That made you break this enterprise to me?
That sets them on: let me have way, my lord,
The wars for my money. I hope to see Romans as cheap
And put on fear and cast yourself in wonder,
when you find him out, you have him ever after.
Till this time pomp was single, but now married
Enter PISTOL
To tell him that his sword can never win
The shrug, the hum or ha, these petty brands
afternoon as she went to the garden for parsley to
with you for's oath sake: marry, he hath better
Your daughter and her cousin much commend
And when I wander here and there,
Where? yonder? that's Deiphobus. 'Tis Troilus!
Which I, the factor for the rest, have done
Shall dye your white rose in a bloody red.
Is this the way?
there is two or three lords and ladies more married:
But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
Romeo, there dead, was husband to that Juliet;
woman's heart; and, I warrant you, they could never
Will not, nor cannot, use such vigilance
So strongly that they dare not meet each other;
Marriage, uncle! alas, my years are young!
Fall not a tear, I say; one of them rates
Who is so full of grace, that it flows over
Now, my lord constable!
My vows are equal partners with thy vows.
Her brother is in secret come from France;
Farewell, thou woful welcomer of glory!
Drum heard
Exeunt all but Antipholus of Syracuse, Antipholus of Ephesus, Dromio of Syracuse and Dromio of Ephesus
For husband shalt thou--
Because the girl should not survive her shame,
For all the wealth that ever I did see,
Come not near our fairy queen.
thyself into the trick of singularity;' and
Well ta'en, and like a buzzard.
me. I made me no more ado but took all their seven
To be in love, where scorn is bought with groans;
There is gold for you;
O, my heart bleeds
Forewarn him that he use no scurrilous words in 's tunes.
that pass. Peter Simple, you say your name is?
No more than what he thinks he is.
To ease your country of distressful war,
I would adventure for such merchandise.
No shape but his can please your dainty eye.
In lieu of all thy pains and husbandry
friend of mine.
Were jocund, and supposed their state was sure,
You are, and do not know't:
For if we too be one and thou play false,
And to say so no more.
ever lost: 'tis too cold a companion; away with 't!
So worthy a gentleman to be her bridegroom?
Enter RODERIGO and IAGO
With all my heart, so thou canst get a wife.
Which trades to Venice. Waste no time in words,
Life is as tedious as a twice-told tale
changes I perceived in the king and Camillo were
And take your good grace from me? Heaven witness,
There take an inventory of all I have,
Of purpose to obscure my noble birth.
And danger, like an ague, subtly taints
Of the most pious Edward with such grace
worth, to season.
now. Your date is better in your pie and your
MARCUS strikes the dish with a knife
Swear his thought over
Ring the alarum-bell. Murder and treason!
Gazing on that which seems to dim thy sight?
But I have reasons strong and forcible.
And mock the deep-mouth'd thunder: for at hand,
Thou troublest me; am not in the vein.
poor house; as your pearl in your foul oyster.
As in good time he may, from Ireland coming,
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO, ESCALUS, Lords and Attendants
I do not like their coming. Now I think on't,
I would have stay'd till I had made you merry,
And thank your lordship. By your leave, sweet ladies:
To ruminate on this so far, until
I was, my lord.
Run, go, help, help! O Henry, ope thine eyes!
Was call'd Sicilius, who did join his honour
Than vainly longing. What we oft do best,
I tell you, lords, you do but plot your deaths
Huntsman, I charge thee, tender well my hounds:
I durst go no further than the Lie Circumstantial,
Shall she within my power.
that resemble something in me,--Softly! M, O, A,
O, they take the part of a better wrestler than myself!
Since once he play'd a farmer's eldest son:
Had hoisted sail and put to sea to-day:
And, notwithstanding all this loss of blood,
misprised: but it shall not be so long; this
But that the guilt of murder bucklers thee
Your graces find me here part of a housewife,
Thou hast served me with much faith. What's else to say?
impediment to the contrary, to be the trumpet of his
are bred better; for, besides that they are fair
Marry, farewell! I pray you, sir, what saucy
To show myself a glass.
Nay, you might keep that cheque for it till you met
This is as uncivil as strange. I beseech you, do me
To stop effusion of our Christian blood
Go back again, and be new beaten home?
Sir, speed you: what's your will?
Confirm the crown to me and to mine heirs,
Pitiful sight! here lies the county slain,
my means. The jewels you have had from me to
The present eye praises the present object.
[Within]  Who's there? what, ho!
My mother: father and mother is man and wife; man
did it to minister occasion to these gentlemen,
But Henry now shall wear the English crown,
To the king's party there's no going: newness
And thinks he that the chirping of a wren,
Has forgot Britain.
Sure, I shall never marry like my sisters,
Is wise and virtuous, and his noble queen
Or to dispraise my lord with that same tongue
He went hence even now.
When the sun sets, who doth not look for night?
Something in my behalf.
Dies
For lack of tread are undistinguishable:
What, was your vizard made without a tongue?
Say, where shall's lay him?
And yet we should, for perpetuity,
Unfold the imagined happiness that both
Tyre, I now look from thee then, and to Tarsus
A boar-spear in my hand; and--in my heart
To you Duke Humphrey must unload his grief,
Fetch me a better answer.
And all wide-stretched honours that pertain
slip-shod.
Is this the man that you did tell us of?
what shame else belongs to't. To him will I present
king Charles, and William de la Pole, Marquess of
Grant I may never prove so fond,
A foot of honour better than I was;
To make this creature fruitful!
Thy mother took into her blameful bed
Commit me for committing honour, trust it,
Never to marry with her though she would entreat:
Nearer in bloody thoughts, but not in blood,
How terrible in constant resolution,
To any one, nor taken sustenance
I have a widow aunt, a dowager
Who, as you say, took pains to get this son,
To you and your behests, and am enjoin'd
The chain unfinish'd made me stay thus long.
Come hither, sirrah, I must examine thee: what is thy name?
Of Salisbury, who can report of him,
No, Leonato,
I may not conceal them, sir.
Of maiden's patience. Hast thou slain him, then?
To die, even when they to perfection grow!
Hath banish'd me, his daughter?
done me wrong, doth cause me, as my father, being, I
What might be toward, that this sweaty haste
Now are frolic: not a mouse
It will help me nothing
'tis I love; and yet 'tis a woman; but what woman, I
else; nor that well neither.
He doth with holy abstinence subdue
Contaminate our fingers with base bribes,
That violates the smallest branch herein:
For, since the cardinal fell, that title's lost:
Yet ask.
the Tower, to defend the city from the rebels.
And in the modesty of fearful duty
Her name is Margery, indeed: I'll be sworn, if thou
Let sapphire, pearl and rich embroidery,
Led us to Rome, strangers, and more than so,
Before a willing bondman; then I know
More perilous than the head.
I think she means that there was more than one
Thy palm some moment keeps; but now mine eyes,
Is as our earing. Fare thee well awhile.
Let him have all the rigor of the law.
In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
How unremoveable and fix'd he is
Call all your tribes together, praise the gods,
Well said: that was laid on with a trowel.
Affront Ophelia:
Only this proof I'll of thy valour make,
I am prepared: here is my keen-edged sword,
A queen, and daughter to a king, inter me.
Should ask, if Katharina should be his wife,
the house: and, Falstaff, you carried your guts
Rising
most mighty for thy place and sway,
And fix'd his head upon our battlements.
Madam, yourself are not exempt in this,
The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch,
In private?
Arise, I pray you, rise:
Shake off slumber, and beware:
should not be conjoined, charge you, on your souls,
Hath drops too few to wash her clean again
My charity is outrage, life my shame
Have, for the gilt of France,--O guilt indeed!
Let his queen mother all alone entreat him
Enter a Messenger with letters
And at the sound it shrunk in haste away,
worship more of the wart the next time we have
And, after conflict such as was supposed
Well, well, sir, well.
When I shall ask the banns and when be married.
Re-enter BUCKINGHAM
You that are blamed for it alike with us,
With very easy arguments of love,
Ay, and 'Rato-lorum' too; and a gentleman born,
We have beat them to their beds. What, girl!
Of my word, I have written to effect;
They take for natural father. The game is up.
Showing an outward pity; yet you Pilates
That starts i' the way before thee.
the end, call me cut.
that cons state without book and utters it by great
for it. He surely affected her for her wit.
I'll undertake to land them on our coast
I know so. But, gentle Lady Anne,
He's right noble:
A noise within
And wet my cheeks with artificial tears,
Virtue is bold, and goodness never fearful. Have
O Tamora! was ever heard the like?
That I can tell you too. The Archbishop
And that's the dearest grace it renders you,--
welcome to Elsinore.
What are they? let us know.
Sir Walter Blunt, new lighted from his horse.
No, my lord, I saw nothing.
And pat he comes like the catastrophe of the old
That I myself have done unto myself?
What, household stuff?
My noble lord,--
Enter PUBLIUS and others
Roderigo! no:--yes, sure: O heaven! Roderigo.
Then, England's messenger, return in post,
Custom hath made it in him a property of easiness.
And lawful meaning in a lawful act,
Whose watery arch and messenger am I,
was in the basket!
Her people out upon her; and Antony,
[Reads]
Will you, I pray, demand that demi-devil
I will ask him for my place again; he shall tell me
To give or to forgive; but when we have stuff'd
O that it were to do! What have we done?
Office and custom, in all line of order;
DON
Will not the ladies be afeard of the lion?
Exeunt REIGNIER and MARGARET
Enter, on the walls, the Mayor of York, and his Brethren
Nothing at this time but my visitation: only I will
In what part of your body pleaseth me.
To whom should I complain? Did I tell this,
Drums afar off
Alarum: excursions. Enter NORFOLK and forces fighting; to him CATESBY
But there's a saying very old and true,
Have written strange defeatures in my face:
I pray you.
Let your highness
Here's too much 'out upon thee!' I pray thee,
they ne'er come but I look to be washed. Master, I
there was not any man died in his own person,
it on the drawer, when indeed there is no need.
Now, by my father's badge, old Nevil's crest,
My master sues to her, and she hath
Thou foolish friar, and thou pernicious woman,
It is no matter, his name's Cinna; pluck but his
That run i' the clock's behalf. But this is foolery:
that knew how to love himself. Ere I would say, I
Is he a lamb? his skin is surely lent him,
That I, the son of a dear father murder'd,
Mercy to thee would prove itself a bawd:
Edmund had issue, Roger Earl of March;
Shall harm Macbeth.
I know him well: you are welcome for his sake.
They shall no more prevail than we give way to.
SCENE I. Friar Laurence's cell.
[Aside to MISTRESS PAGE]  Trust me, I thought on her:
Now, all my joy
wondrous fat marriage.
And have my learning from some true reports,
half, for easing me of the carriage.
I know not what: 'tis the heart, Master Page; 'tis
Heaven forgive me!
To ease the gnawing vulture of thy mind,
Why, is not Oxford here another anchor?
Shall I bend low and in a bondman's key,
Pyramus is not killed indeed; and, for the more
It shall no longer grieve without reproof.
Silvia: did not I bid thee still mark me and do as I
We with our stately presence glorify,
I do note
page, Hercules,--
Let me play the fool:
adieu: these foolish drops do something drown my
A needy, hollow-eyed, sharp-looking wretch,
prize, and have it; yea, and can show it you here in
Here was 'I thank you for your voices: thank you:
With golden promises; that, were his heart
Ay, ay: away with her to execution!
Woman, do what thou canst to save our honours;
Bear hence this body and attend our will:
What, thyself?
We cannot weigh our brother with ourself:
An't please your majesty, 'tis the gage of one that
Should rift to hear me; and the words that follow'd
Not almost appears,
Enter PROTEUS, SILVIA, and JULIA
But he which bore my letter, Friar John,
Were I the Moor, I would not be Iago:
Cold lips blow to their deities, take thee from me.
Who doth he gallop withal?
Hie you to church; I must another way,
Away, I do beseech you, both away:
But have you never found my brother's way
This is some monster of the isle with four legs, who
These be the stops that hinder study quite
Marry, come up, my dish of chastity with rosemary and bays!
A seat for baseness.
And perform an old contracting.
Oui, vraiment.
Which, being writ to me, shall be deliver'd
And very welcome. Look, signior, here's your sister.
Where, in a frenzy, in my master's garments,
And, to kill the marvel,
I'll fortune-tell you.
If thou be found by me, thou art but dead.
Nor should that nation boast it so with us,
meaning thereby that grapes were made to eat and
Since you did leave it for my office, sir.
and is hanged betimes in the morning, may sleep the
Make her thanks bless thee.
Not so; I think she lives.
and that were enough to hang us all.
He slily stole away and left his men:
For amplest credence.
I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
That have on both sides pass'd.
going to bed, or kiln-hole, to whistle off these
Though yet she speak not. Mark a little while.
With that which melteth fools; I mean, sweet words,
To bear a poison, I would temper it;
If that be sin, I'll make it my morn prayer
Not of you.
When triumph is become an alehouse guest?
I sing but after you.
I am amazed at your passionate words.
And mark what way I make: come, good my lord.
My lord, the army of the Duke of Buckingham--
For as it would ill become me to be vain, indiscreet, or a fool,
I daily vow to use it. Come and lead me
prepared. I am made to understand that you have
Ere thou relieve the beggar; give to dogs
I have no further gone in this than by
When daisies pied and violets blue
Was both herself and love: O, then, give pity
He's more secure to keep it shut than shown:
And fan our people cold. Norway himself,
Of all our purposes. What say you to it?
Quick proceeders, marry! Now, tell me, I pray,
Fie, fie! you counterfeit, you puppet, you!
Than my faint means would grant continuance:
To ransom my two nephews from their death;
To kiss these lips, I will appear in blood;
Thou keep'st a wife herself, thyself a maid.
It comprehends some bringer of that joy;
It is your uncle.
ANTIPHOLUS
No; that it is too little.
Come not within these doors; within this roof
We few, we happy few, we band of brothers;
Ere I again behold my Romeo!
Until you see her die again; for then
And what is mine my love shall render him.
By the luckiest stars in heaven: and, would your honour
A deed of slander with thy fatal hand
So get you hence in peace; and tell the Dauphin
What! have I twice said well? when was't before?
Is't near dinner-time?
king, and the dukes: it is no time to discourse. The
Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER
But burning fatal to the Talbotites!
I may do that I shall be sorry for.
But when they shall see, sir, his crest up again,
And make conceive a bark of baser kind
Whence is that knocking?
Hired to it by your brother.
To dwell in solemn shades of endless night.
That hath express'd himself in all his deeds
Enter DERBY
Yet so much is my poverty of spirit,
That it did, sir, i' the very throat on
The county will be here with music straight,
Enter a Messenger
He knows that you embrace not Antony
Thou shouldst rather ask if it were possible any
How has the ass broke the wall, that thou art out of the city?
the friend of France; for I love France so well that
Who lets go by no vantages that may
Would you proceed especially against Caius Marcius?
Hang thee, monster!
With rainy marching in the painful field;
I feel my heart new open'd. O, how wretched
Our Romeo hath not been in bed to-night.
A goodly house: the feast smells well; but I
This grisly beast, which Lion hight by name,
What think'st thou of the fair Sir Eglamour?
After him, fellows; bring him to the block.
A heart it was, bound in with diamonds,
motley-minded gentleman that I have so often met in
That nature's fragile vessel doth sustain
I think so too. But you shall find, the band that
It is Biron's writing, and here is his name.
Two thousand ducats by the year of land!
'Aio te, AEacida, Romanos vincere posse.'
but lean luck in the match, and yet is she a
Come, madam, you must straight to Westminster,
Yea, two and two, Newgate fashion.
Back'd by the power of Warwick, that false peer,
And willingly could waste my time in it.
And we mean well in going to this mask;
Now, Edmund, where's the villain?
For certain ducats: he with none return'd
To the first giver.'
Do in our eyes begin to lose their gloss,
Part them; they are incensed.
Pray, be not sick,
My legs can keep no measure in delight,
Grown fear'd and tedious; yea, my gravity,
Should lose their names, and so should justice too.
Dost thou hear, Iago?
How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!
O, call back yesterday, bid time return,
For Edward, for my brother, for his sake: Why, sirs,
But kiss; one kiss! Rubies unparagon'd,
This last day was
To him that is most true. To Milford go,
A world by itself; and we will nothing pay
Who's there? my good lord cardinal? O my Wolsey,
And so will I and write home for it straight.
I never yet was valiant: for this business,
duke to be wise.
How many shallow bauble boats dare sail
To stubborn harshness: and, my gracious duke,
For the most part, too, they are foolish that are so.
Her nurse is privy: and, if aught in this
I would not deny you; but, by this good day, I yield
To quell the rebels and their complices.
philosophers hold that the lips is parcel of the
And might not be delivered to the world,
A love-song, a love-song.
Enter BUCKINGHAM and CLIFFORD, attended
Deep night, dark night, the silent of the night,
He will suspect us still and find a time
And surer bind this knot of amity,
outprized by a trifle.
That, in the working of your own affections,
[Aside to AGRIPPA]  He were the worse for that,
Subdue my worthiest self. The witch shall die:
of the Romans.
If you but knew how you the purpose cherish
O, ten times more, than tigers of Hyrcania.
Yet with my nobler reason 'gaitist my fury
For gnarling sorrow hath less power to bite
And, like a strutting player, whose conceit
But not intentively: I did consent,
His highness having lived so long with her, and she
Good Ursula, wake my cousin Beatrice, and desire
good morrow.
thee. Come, neighbour Mugs, we'll call up the
More man? plague, plague!
am sick, or not at home; what you will, to dismiss it.
[Coming forward]
What says Maria?
Alcibiades. Go; thou wast born a bastard, and thou't
My truth and honour firmly.
Striking him
Mark what I say, which you shall find
Aside
No, truly, but in friendly recompense.
Would hang themselves. Physic for't there is none;
a postmaster's boy.
All liberal reason I will yield unto.
Even as a splitted bark, so sunder we
That I did pluck allegiance from men's hearts,
The ancient saying is no heresy,
thyself a pleasure, me a sport. There are many
For all your fair endeavors; and entreat,
rogues are marvellous poor.
What is, my lord?
Accoutred as I was, I plunged in
Well, you are come to me in a happy time;
Enter a third Gentleman
Enter DROMIO of Ephesus
For what good turn?
The gods are witness,
What may be wrought out of their discontent,
Be it a lordship, thou shalt have it for that word.
So excellent a king; that was, to this,
And live to be the show and gaze o' the time:
mightest as well have known all our names as thus to
Then, since the case so stands as now it doth,
Yea, my good lord. How still the evening is,
Gentlemen, forward to the bridal dinner:
Which ne'er I did remember: to my knowledge,
That I have passed.
Obedience bids I should not bid again.
Would seem hyperboles. At this fusty stuff
They say he parted well, and paid his score:
gentleman that danced with her told her she is much
My countrymen,--
Will bear the knave by the volume. The honour'd gods
Captive to thee and to thy Roman yoke,
Is this in way of truth; yet ne'ertheless,
For there was never yet fair woman but she made
And set them upright at their dear friends' doors,
Spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt,
A noble troop of strangers;
At the next word: no more of 'worthy lord!'
What's that to the purpose?
Serve by indenture to the common hangman:
Fetch me that flower; the herb I shew'd thee once:
To those of mine in court: I'll stay at home
My masters of Saint Alban's, have you not beadles in
How is't, my lord? how look you?
Or sell my title for a glorious grave.
That our French gallants shall to-day draw out,
And cleave the general ear with horrid speech,
Proclaims you for a man replete with mocks,
A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
Some base notorious knave, some scurvy fellow.
And ten to one is no impeach of valour.
O Brakenbury, I have done those things,
Jack Cade hath gotten London bridge:
With wild wood-leaves and weeds I ha' strew'd his grave,
Monster, I will kill this man: his daughter and I
your blows.
Ay, madam.
O, my lord, my lord, I have been so affrighted!
It hath pleased the devil drunkenness to give place
in the view of the shepherd: so that all the
We should infringe the holy privilege
her wind so short, as if she were frayed with a
In this dull world, which in thy absence is
Is Beaufort term'd a kite? Where are his talons?
And then?
For his quick hunting, stand the putting on,
He'll lead me, then, in triumph?
My lord, I do not know;
How could you give it him?
Where is kind Hastings, Rivers, Vaughan, Grey?
Who I believe was pack'd in all this wrong,
To SILVIUS
I'll follow and inquire him out:
Why,  the honest men.
Shall I be heard?
of eating and drinking.
Yes, yes, it was Bassanio; as I think, he was so called.
One that before the judgement carries poor souls to hell.
Armed in arguments; you'll be surprised:
And then with what haste you can get you to bed.
He parted frowning from me, as if ruin
Sweet soul, let's in, and there expect their coming.
There is, sure, another flood toward, and these
I think thou hast the veriest shrew of all.
Whate'er you think, good words, I think, were best.
Our army lies, ready to give up the ghost.
By the same token, you are a bawd.
And now will I be Edward's champion.
How things are perfected.
Shalt stir up in Suffolk, Norfolk, and in Kent,
Have I not in a pitched battle heard
You speak of him when he was less furnished than now
And sat at good men's feasts and wiped our eyes
I see a man's life is a tedious one:
Ay, and Hector's a greyhound.
You have a quick ear.
Made me exchange my state with Tranio,
DON
When at their mothers' moist eyes babes shall suck,
And I in going, madam, weep o'er my father's death
All unity on earth.
I mean it not; I seek you a better husband.
He'ld make an end of thy posterity.
Anon I'll give thee more instructions.
Sir, the king is a noble gentleman, and my familiar,
Servants bind him
these you may avoid but the Lie Direct; and you may
All cruels else subscribed: but I shall see
Though I show'd sourly to him, once more offer'd
Come, good Athenian.
ourselves to an unknown fear.
But if I give my wife a handkerchief,--
endure cold as another man's sword will: and
For men so old as we to keep the peace.
You will not do't for all the world, I hope.
O Antony!
Lavinia, come. Marcus, look to my house:
And urge her to a present answer back:
So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.
that hot termagant Scot had paid me scot and lot too.
Enter Sir William LUCY
Enter Sir William LUCY
A father, and a gracious aged man,
summered and warm kept, are like flies at
What were his marks?
My true preserver, and a loyal sir
This favour will I do you for his sake;
Run hence, proclaim, cry it about the streets.
Adore our errors; laugh at's, while we strut
Hark, canst thou hear me? I will play the swan.
In seeking tales and informations
I would you had been by the ship side, to have
And so will I.
O Eglamour, thou art a gentleman--
O, my fair cousin, I must not say so.
Cominius, Marcius your old enemy,
I thought upon one pair of English legs
So please your grace, the Prologue is address'd.
She swore, in faith, twas strange, 'twas passing strange,
To separate the husband and the wife.
Empale him with your weapons round about;
could wish he would modestly examine himself, to see
The very spirit of Plantagenet!
As if my brother lived: I partly think
Excepting none but good Duke Humphrey:
They know that do accuse me; I know none:
And her withholds from me and other more,
That even his stubbornness, his cheques, his frowns--
While proud ambitious Edward Duke of York
But when I look on her perfections,
To punish my mistreadings. Tell me else,
You rogue! you rascal!
day? Unless hours were cups of sack and minutes
I call'd thee then poor shadow, painted queen;
Woe to the hand that shed this costly blood!
To house or housekeeping: then, at my farm
That, having this obtain'd, you presently
'I may command where I adore.' Why, she may command
Undone, and forfeited to cares for ever!
I'll help thee: come, lend me thy hand.
Good even, Varro: what,
Good queen; I say good queen;
your victuals: come, there is sauce for it.
Our legions are brim-full, our cause is ripe:
Our own brains, and the opinion that we bring,
behavedst thyself as if thou hadst been in thine own
So he had need, for 'tis threadbare. Well, I say it
No longer staying but to give the mother
O Troilus! Troilus!
drunk me would have bought me lights as good cheap
Never make known what you have seen to-night.
I will to Venice; Sunday comes apace:
do not like the fashion of your garments: you will
Brutus is noble, wise, valiant, and honest;
Enter, to Chamberlain, NORFOLK and SUFFOLK
Or look on thine; we could not stall together
If then thy spirit look upon us now,
years' health; in which time I will make a lip at
To make confession and to be absolved.
But to be rough, unswayable and free.
As I hate hell, all Montagues, and thee:
I must confess to you, sir, I am no fighter: I am
Good my lord, enter here.
Come, Kate, and wash, and welcome heartily.
Soft! here comes sleeve, and t'other.
I am come to survey the Tower this day:
How far off is our brother Montague?
And quickly bring us word of England's fall.
If that may be, then all is well. Come, sit  down,
Come, sirrah.
'Boarding,' call you it? I'll be sure to keep him
Do as I bid you, or you'll move me else.
Thou art too brief: I will the second time,
As fat as tame things: one good deed dying tongueless
I am a lamb: but if you brave the Moor,
pray you, tell me if this be the lady of the house,
Trinculo, if you trouble him any more in's tale, by
Not so, sir, neither; I know my duty.
O treacherous villains!
O, my good lord, the Duke of Cornwall's dead:
As in this king.
beard on his face: I had rather lie in the woollen.
Be thou as lightning in the eyes of France;
Where's Romeo's man? what can he say in this?
The Lord protect him from that kingly title!
Saint Denis bless this happy stratagem!
Were man as rare as phoenix. 'Od's my will!
we some strange Indian with the great tool come to
Or you shall hear in such a kind from me
My lords, when you shall know--as in this rage,
A local habitation and a name.
The curtain'd sleep; witchcraft celebrates
But let it be. Bring me to Antony.
I have sat here all day.
I'll charm the air to give a sound,
Reveal the damn'd contriver of this deed.
She's e'en setting on water to scald such chickens
My heart assures me that the Earl of Warwick
I shoot thee at the swain.
With amber bracelets, beads and all this knavery.
not take pity of her, I am a villain; if I do not
Father, be quiet; he shall stay my leisure.
When now I think you can behold such sights,
Silvia, I speak to you, and you, Sir Thurio;
matter? why weepest thou, man? Away, ass! You'll
there is no slander in an allowed fool, though he do
Continual meditations, tears, and sorrows,
[Aside to CLEOPATRA]  To make his followers weep.
Call'd you, my lord?
SCENE VI. Rome. A public place.
Save only the gods: now his friends are dead,
Which in the scuffles of great fights hath burst
that's in them. Is the senate possessed of this?
worship's name.
Soft! it smells most sweetly in my sense.
you know, Pyramus and Thisby meet by moonlight.
Then take thine auld cloak about thee.
Made me compare with Hermia's sphery eyne?
Ah, gracious lord, these days are dangerous:
Misconstrue us in him and wail his death.
Winter garments must be lined,
Go, be gone.
Come, let's away.
A marriage 'twixt the Duke of Orleans and
high-proof melancholy and would fain have it beaten
Come, thou new ruin of old Clifford's house:
Methinks our garments are now as fresh as when we
If in your country wars you chance to die,
Ay, good my lord; for purposely therefore
the third in your bosom: the very butcher of a silk
Hath power enough to serve our turn. But who comes here?
And doth beget new courage in our breasts.
of heavy tedious penury; these Time ambles withal.
Full merrily the humble-bee doth sing,
For thine own bowels, which do call thee sire,
therefore I can be quiet.
C'est bien dit, madame; il est fort bon Anglois.
Exit
Like beasts which you shun beastly, and may save,
There,--on my conscience, put unwittingly?
Exeunt
And hale him hither.
The thing which is flatter'd, but a spark,
How! know you where you are?
With such a hell of pain and world of charge,
So shall you share all that he doth possess,
The handkerchief!
It was, Andronicus.
I do not fly, but advantageous care
I do not know that Englishman alive
Of golden sovereignty; acquaint the princess
Nay, I'll read it first, by your favour.
Fond man, remember that thou hast a wife;
The motions of his spirit are dull as night
[Within]	Heaven secure him!
Be gone;
Exeunt all but QUEEN MARGARET, CARDINAL, SUFFOLK, and YORK; SOMERSET remains apart
husband at home, my son and my servant spend all at
'Tis new to thee.
sovereign mistress of effects, throws a more safer
No, nor I neither; but most wonderful that she
Vaulting ambition, which o'erleaps itself
Lucilius' Servant	Here's mine.
So wilfully dost spurn; and force perforce
Thou know'st, was banish'd: for one thing she did
Ay, like a dastard and a treacherous coward,
And let the stinking elder, grief, untwine
Though death be poor, it ends a mortal woe.
Now will he sit under a medlar tree,
High order in this great solemnity.
Hath made me full of sickness and diseases.
Is it so brave a lass?
But with proviso and exception,
Much wrong, you bate too much of your own merits:
And palter in the shifts of lowness; who
with two stones moe than's artificial one: he is
To cross my obsequies and true love's rite?
'Tis woful.
conspectuities glean out of this character, if I be
Thy sacred physic shall receive such pay
Exeunt
A young Venetian, one that comes before
figure: I am better than thou art now; I am a fool,
Enter GLOUCESTER, KING LEAR, KENT, Fool, and EDGAR
Or modest Dian circled with her nymphs,
I'll follow those that even now fled hence,
For him, I think not on him: for his thoughts,
If heaven have any grievous plague in store
Darnel, and all the idle weeds that grow
Why, then we shall have a stirring world again.
As full of valour as of royal blood:
That you take with unthankfulness, his doing:
Art thou not weary, John? how dost thou fare?
This virtue and this moral discipline,
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
a man doth of a Death's-head or a memento mori: I
be slow in words is a woman's only virtue: I pray
Bid him prepare; for I will cut his throat.
Speak, or thy silence on the instant is
To help him of his blindness,
lend me thy sword.
O excellent device! was there ever heard a better,
Though that her jesses were my dear heartstrings,
And like the tyrannous breathing of the north
Seize with thine eagle's talons.
price of pork.
That labour may you save: see where he comes.
For here we need it not.
Seem you that you are not?
Join'd in commission with him; but either
purpose, confess thyself--
Now my soul's palace is become a prison:
They are return'd, my lord, and give it out
be a ravisher, so it cannot be denied but peace is a
Enter JESSICA, above, in boy's clothes
In which so many smiling Romans bathed,
Alexander returneth into dust; the dust is earth; of
Are his wits safe? is he not light of brain?
Thy banish'd trunk be found in our dominions,
And--would it were not so!--you are my mother.
Enter the DUKE, the Magnificoes, ANTONIO, BASSANIO, GRATIANO, SALERIO, and others
business after your own wisdom. I would unstate
As with a saint.
'Twas told me you were rough and coy and sullen,
To answer royally in our defences.
'Tis brief, my lord.
Since you are strangers and come here by chance,
Now, by Saint Peter's Church and Peter too,
The tribunes cannot do't for shame; the people
Then thus I turn me from my country's light,
No, my good lord; it is more pleasing stuff.
That the proportion both of thanks and payment
and whatsoever comes athwart his affection ranges
Then live, Macduff: what need I fear of thee?
In fair Bohemia, and remember well,
any weather at all, and another storm brewing;
Of this deep pit, poor Bassianus' grave.
Upon thy wicked dam, come forth!
The Duke of York is newly come from Ireland,
My comfort is that heaven will take our souls
I do bite my thumb, sir.
Stand these poor people's friend, and urge the king
Which here you come to accuse.
To whom the foragers shall all repair,
And in such indexes, although small pricks
Trumpet sounds
Let's choose executors and talk of wills:
More light, you knaves; and turn the tables up,
She might ha' been a grandam ere she died:
It may be, these apparent prodigies,
Let the high office and the honour go
Thoughts that would thick my blood.
To monstrous quality,--why, you shall find
And needs no other suitor but his likings
The sides o' the world may danger: much is breeding,
Why do you look on us, and shake your head,
Exit
And what is music then? Then music is
If one good deed in all my life I did,
Exeunt
Till accident or purpose bring you to't:
I have from your Sicilian shores dismiss'd;
If thou love me, 'tis time thou wert away.
Here in my house do him disparagement:
Or image of that horror?
A sister! you are she.
Which you on all estates will execute
Of greater time than I shall show to be.
It is not seen enough, you should wear it in your
With duty and desire we follow you.
They are infected; in their hearts it lies;
Do faithful homage and receive free honours:
Hark! hark! the Dauphin's drum, a warning bell,
Friar, I must entreat your pains, I think.
The least rub in your fortunes, fall away
I warrant it is to knight you, captain.
That same Biron I'll torture ere I go:
Gloucester, whate'er we like, thou art protector
These are not natural events; they strengthen
Alas,  good master, my wife desired some damsons,
To be a comrade with the wolf and owl,--
Hence from Verona art thou banished:
And let the emperor dandle him for his own.
[Aside]  Lord Lucius and Lucullus? hum!
O, 'twas the foulest deed to slay that babe,
a fancy that he hath to strange disguises; as, to be
Look thee, 'tis so! Thou singly honest man,
nurse, or his cook, or his laundry, his washer, and
This is fery fantastical humours and jealousies.
Enter certain Nymphs
discharging less than the tenth part of one. They
Now give me some surance that thou art Revenge,
They are near the city?
thou lookest cheerly, and I'll be with thee quickly.
Sir Topas the curate, who comes to visit Malvolio
Enforce attention like deep harmony:
Lead off this ground; and let's make further search
epilogue; yet to good wine they do use good bushes,
Wouldst thou have laugh'd had I come coffin'd home,
To thee particularly and to all the Volsces
Let's to the Capitol;
in his youth that he cannot endure in his age.
I will enchant the old Andronicus
I do assure you, my lord, he is very great in
Strong both against the deed; then, as his host,
More penitence than done trespass: at the last,
Exit
When he is fit and season'd for his passage?
uses to seal: 'tis my lady. To whom should this be?
As misers do by beggars, neither gave to me
And 'gentle Harry Percy,' and 'kind cousin;'
Re-enter second Gentleman
Marcus Andronicus, so I do ally
Lend me your hand.
Ay, that she can.
By day and night to attend him carefully,
Of your good pleasure? If it be no more,
better man than I am?
For tender princes, use my babies well!
As I am glad I have not, though not to have it
Half sleep, half waking: but as yet, I swear,
To prison with her! Shall we thus permit
We do request your kindest ears, and after,
If he suspect I may dishonour him:
By decimation, and a tithed death--
About a schoolmaster for the fair Bianca:
The lamentable change is from the best;
And thou thyself a shearman, art thou not?
Hail, great king!
examined? let them come before master constable.
Both, both, my lord.
Than in the glass of Pandar's praise may be;
Our feast shall be much honour'd in your marriage.
With this regard their currents turn awry,
My dearest master, your dear son, may hie:
This quarrel would excite? Yet, I protest,
name the several colours we do wear. Sight may
If I do fail in fortune of my choice,
Our inland from the pilfering borderers.
SCENE III. Tyre. An ante-chamber in the palace.
Isis, hear me this prayer, though thou deny me a
As to prenominate in nice conjecture
Thither I must, although against my will,
Ay, my lord: and fear
Or made gift of it, my father's eye
Let's follow him, and pervert the present wrath
Enter VALENTINE and SPEED
But, I pray thee, tell me this: has Ford's wife and
No? a dozen times at least.
speak with her; nor your name is not Master Cesario;
Sir, here is newly come to court Laertes; believe
bridge most valiantly, with excellent discipline.
The ring I saw upon his finger now--
Lady mine, proceed.
It must not be: if Cassio do remain,
That works him strongly.
than to be beadle. But, master, I'll go draw up the
Are much condemn'd to have an itching palm;
Then you'll buy 'em to sell again.
Whom God hath join'd together; ay, and 'twere pity
not wooed in good time: if the prince be too
To what I shall unfold.
You cannot better be employ'd, Bassanio,
instructions may be your guide. Let this Barnardine
Why, that's the way to choke a gibing spirit,
Why, what's a moveable?
The honour that he loses: more I'll entreat you
The form of my intent. I'll serve this duke:
All little jealousies, which now seem great,
Within this half hour will he be asleep:
Whose figure even this instant cloud puts on,
And hugg'd me in his arm, and kindly kiss'd my cheek;
Enter CONSTANCE, ARTHUR, and SALISBURY
twinkled on my bastardizing. Edgar--
And ere this hand, by thee to Romeo seal'd,
mightily misplaced, and the bountiful blind woman
First Serving-Man	Villains, answer you so the lord protector?
True, he was so: I know the cause too: he'll lay
Your cake there is warm within; you stand here in the cold:
I say it shall be so.
reputation. Come, shall we to this gear?
From shelves and rocks that threaten us with wreck.
Ay.
Even with the having: it is not so with thee.
For 'get you gone,' she doth not mean 'away!'
When gouty keepers of thee cannot stand.
Provost, a word with you!
With the whole quality wherefore: I fear
Amen, amen! Go on, good Eglamour,
And pay you for your voices. 'Tis no matter;
Buckingham, doth York intend no harm to us,
Thus Suffolk hath prevail'd; and thus he goes,
Lucilius, do you the like; and let no man
Where dwellest thou?
is he: now, you are not ipse, for I am he.
'Tis most nobly spoken.
Consider then we come but in despite.
And you be not, hang, beg, starve, die in
Shall I be married then to-morrow morning?
What's done i' the Capitol; who's like to rise,
They are already, or quickly will be landed:
Stabs him
That he suspects none: on whose foolish honesty
I know by that he's dead; and, by my soul,
She dying, as it must so be maintain'd,
I think he bought his doublet in Italy, his round
Look, whether he has not turned his colour and has
No sudden mean of death, though ne'er so mean,
My sceptre for a palmer's walking staff,
Sir, I do depend upon the lord.
But now 'tis made an H.
I know it well, my Lord; and, sure, the match
Now, as I can remember, by my troth,
Boy, stand aside. Caius Ligarius! how?
The woman's; flattering, hers; deceiving, hers;
counterfeitly; that is, sir, I will counterfeit the
During all question of the gentle truce;
They'll tell the clock to any business that
That virtuous Lady Bona, thy fair sister,
Whose death indeed's the strongest in our censure:
free entertainment.
Exeunt SEBASTIAN, and ANTONIO
Enter Attendants
Ho, ho, ho!
him: I am glad of it.
But, more of thy news?
My brother he is in Elysium.
His fault is much, and the good king his master
the heels for a rabbit-sucker or a poulter's hare.
the commanders very poor rogues, upon my reputation
Why, madam, so, no doubt, he is.
And come, Egeus; you shall go with me,
'Seese' and 'putter'! have I lived to stand at the
Suppose this arm is for the Duke of York,
I cannot speak of this. Come now, your promise.
O' my word, the father's son: I'll swear,'tis a
And wilt not come? Come, recreant; come, thou child;
These thoughts of horror further than you shall
Be advised.
Sir, yonder is your place.
Exeunt all but YORK
Nay, then.
The torrent roar'd, and we did buffet it
Good Enobarbus!
I'll lay my head to any good man's hat,
He shall not hear thee; or from Caesar's camp
Playing on pipes of corn and versing love
Ha, ha, ha! So, you're paid.
He'll watch the horologe a double set,
Are you our daughter?
Sennet. Exeunt
With thine entirely.
it into your pocket? the quality of nothing hath
Some men must love my lady and some Joan.
Where it perceives it is but faintly borne.
To the way she's forced to.
You will think you have made no offence, if the duke
And make fair weather in your blustering land.
and fifty tattered prodigals lately come from
I see thou art not for my company.
A friend. What art thou?
her dispraise those parts in me that you love with
Est-il impossible d'echapper la force de ton bras?
What is the matter?
Receive the sentence of the law for sins
Crier Hobgoblin, make the fairy oyes.
One pain is lessen'd by another's anguish;
Drawing
All things is ready. How near is our master?
I say 'tis copper: darest thou be as good as thy word now?
And never more abase our sight so low
I am not a-hungry, I thank you, forsooth. Go,
I'll never wear hair on my face more. You Prince of Wales!
Where my poor young was limed, was caught and kill'd.
Come, let's make haste; she'll soon be back again.
professes not keeping of oaths; in breaking 'em he
must speak through, saying thus, or to the same
To make her speak as move.
And what a pitch she flew above the rest!
Whose hand soever lanced their tender hearts,
Forthwith a power of English shall we levy;
Where is Lord Stanley quarter'd, dost thou know?
Replying shrilly to the well-tuned horns,
I'll take it as a peril to my soul,
Touching the jointure that your king must make,
sorry, when he sent to borrow of me, that my
All thy tediousness on me, ah?
Plantagenet, I will; and like thee, Nero,
In pleasing smiles such murderous tyranny.
[Standing forth]	My lord?
Madam, he swore that he did hold me dear
I free you from't. You are not to be taught
How! me?
Ten masts at each make not the altitude
Because their breaths with sweetmeats tainted are:
With needless jealosy;
Upon our kingdom: if, on the tenth day following,
Made out of her impatience, which not wanted
how honour would become such a person. that it was
I would have sworn it had, my lord; especially
My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites;
Her pastures' grass with faithful English blood.
We'll hold a feast in great solemnity.
Do through the clouds behold this present hour,
Exit
To cozen him that would unjustly win.
Sir, by your leave: having come to Padua
To charge me to an answer, as the pope.
drab I purchased this caparison, and my revenue is
From this my hand, as holding of the pope
I doubt not, uncle, of our victory.
SCENE II. A court of Justice.
And least proportion of humanity:
Say how he died, for I will hear it all.
We'll bring him to his house
My maid's aunt, the fat woman of Brentford, has a
Shall win my love: and so I take my leave,
The hope thereof makes Clifford mourn in steel.
What says he?
Enter SICINIUS, BRUTUS, and an AEdile
Where, being but a private man again,
you're overthrown, you're undone for ever!
By wounding his belief in her renown
Of what it is not. Then, thrice-gracious queen,
O Cressida, how often have I wished me thus!
In speaking for myself. Yet, by your gracious patience,
Now, Thomas Mowbray, do I turn to thee,
ARIEL'S song.
Ay, but I hope your highness shall have his.
Yet Edmund was beloved:
a thousand: he had some feeling of the sport: he
You are not wood, you are not stones, but men;
Of Buckingham to welcome them ashore.
Kills TITUS
And when good will is show'd, though't come
of shame and iniquity. O, you have heard something
That approaches apace; I would gladly have him see
My lord, break we off; we know your mind at full.
On my particular. Prepared I was not
[Aside]  Still on my daughter.
Off goes his bonnet to an oyster-wench;
grapes: if she had been blessed, she would never
And, being done, thus Wall away doth go.
An if you please to call it a rush-candle,
becomes him,--
Exit FRIAR LAURENCE
if he ask for me. I am ill, and gone to bed.
love-song; the very pin of his heart cleft with the
'Tis not unknown to thee that I have sought
O'er France and all her almost kingly dukedoms,
Doth, like a miser, spoil his coat with scanting
More learned than the ears--waving thy head,
give me the poor allottery my father left me by
Help, master, help! here's a fish hangs in the net,
Who threats, in course of this revenge, to do
'Tis he,'tis he: O, he is grown most kind of late.
Poor and content is rich and rich enough,
Now puts the drowsy and neglected act
What is the time o' the day?
heart was not consenting to.
Well, my good fellows, wait on me to-night:
After my speech is ended.
What have we to do with Diana? Pray you, will you go with us?
Forgive him, Angelo, that brought you home
To LUCIO
Knock at my door, and tell me what he says.
Drink some wine ere you go: fare you well.
hand; my words are as fun of peace as matter.
'Tis as I should entreat you wear your gloves,
Maintain'd the change of words with any creature,
If you would seek us,
Now kiss, embrace, contend, do what you will.
me; for every reason excites to this, that my lady
Opinion, that did help me to the crown,
Must it be violent, and as he does conceive
Madam, in good health.
Your highness bade me ask for it to-day.
What chance is this that suddenly hath cross'd us?
Nay, take them.
At eighteen years became inquisitive
And seem'd to ask him sops as he was drinking.
But that the poor monster's in drink: an abominable monster!
I have advertised him by secret means
And pious action we do sugar o'er
offered him, he put it by with the back of his hand,
O God, that seest it, do not suffer it!
This dagger hath mista'en--for, lo, his house
Is it not Hero? Who can blot that name
Pisa renown'd for grave citizens
We do salute you, Duke of Burgundy;
Although ye hale me to a violent death.
Enter SATURNINUS with AARON
This talking lord can lay upon my credit,
For that he dares us to't.
And I the king shall love thee.
Let them lay by their helmets and their spears,
What art thou?
What think you? may we, with the warrant of
Which be the malefactors?
Enter HECTOR, TROILUS, AJAX, AGAMEMNON, ULYSSES, NESTOR, MENELAUS, and DIOMEDES, with lights
The sun of Rome is set! Our day is gone;
True, madam, none at all: what call you this?
RICHARD
When first I raised the tempest. Say, my spirit,
Let her alone: speak not of Helena;
I will praise any man that will praise me; though it
I think I had; I never did deny it.
Some wanton charm upon this man and maid,
And kiss the lips of unacquainted change
occasion may detain us longer. I dare swear he is no
For comfort is too far for us to expect.
Enter THERSITES, solus
about him are under the line, they need no other
With men like men of inconstancy.
lovers speak of.
myself and thee during my life; I for a valiant
Of their white flags display'd, they bring us peace,
The fresh and yet unbruised Greeks do pitch
And so rebel to judgment.
And think it but a minute spent in sport.
O God! methinks it were a happy life,
Upon him as he pass'd: the nobles bended,
Of thy first fight, I soon encountered,
My lord, I aim a mile beyond the moon;
What else?
So far be distant; and, good night, sweet friend:
For I am fresh of spirit and resolved
Alarum. Enter a Son that has killed his father, dragging in the dead body
For that I am some twelve or fourteen moon-shines
Teaches such beauty as a woman's eye?
As my mother was, the first hour I was born.
Come, come; when saw you my father last?
Being a Volsce, be that I am. Condition!
A strain of rareness: and I grieve myself
Ay, past all surgery.
Of both the Sicils and Jerusalem,
Juno and Ceres whisper, and send Iris on employment
Some tardy cripple bore the countermand,
Let me but meet you, ladies, one hour hence,
If it be proved! you see it is apparent.
Sail seas in cockles, have an wish but for't;
So much from the understanding of himself,
Your preparation can affront no less
Which for this nineteen years we have let slip;
That all the world shall--I will do such things,--
Since I have lost, have loved, was in mine eye
The gaudy, blabbing and remorseful day
There was a time when all the body's members
Exeunt Attendants
My Genius is rebuked; as, it is said,
You have displaced the mirth, broke the good meeting,
His youthful hose, well saved, a world too wide
Besides himself, are all the English peers,
They'll grind the one the other. Where's Antony?
And good reason; for thereby is England mained, and
such proverb so little kin to the purpose.
And dimm'd mine eyes, that I can read no further.
A cocker'd silken wanton, brave our fields,
go; vanish into air; away!
But instruments of some more mightier member
created for men to breathe themselves upon thee.
Thou hast contrived against the very life
Enter HASTINGS
That slew thy kinsman, brave Mercutio.
And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
Now, Bagot, freely speak thy mind;
For you must be our housewife.
thus. They will scarcely believe this without trial:
And, pray, receive 'em nobly, and conduct 'em
And I, my lord.
Just, you say well; so would I have said.
To speak of horrors,--he comes before me.
And for his death no wind of blame shall breathe,
In honour follows Coriolanus.
Being wronged as we are by this peevish town,
But, soft! what light through yonder window breaks?
Break ope the locks o' the senate and bring in
This absence of your father's draws a curtain,
Of Athens here, my lord.
Titania waked and straightway loved an ass.
No, no, no, no, no.
Dismiss my soldiers, or capitulate
weeks old as yet?
Say she be mute and will not speak a word;
shepherd deliver the manner how he found it:
Hath made the wizard famous in his death.
I have heard I am a strumpet; and mine ear
Ay, and her father is make her a petter penny.
Never.
It is spoke as a Christians ought to speak.
Be not afraid; she shall not harm thee, Helena.
Give ground, if you see him furious.
Ay, Hal; 'tis hot, 'tis hot; there's that will sack a city.
You mainly were stirr'd up.
The Lady Constance in a frenzy died
I know him as myself; for from our infancy
Will see his burial better than his life.
More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
Sad stories chanced in the times of old.
Hath show'd him gold; my life is spann'd already:
Brandish'd by man that's of a woman born.
The nature of his great offence is dead,
Will not endure his yoke; and for ourself
Telling the bushes that thou look'st for wars,
be his heir, for what he hath taken away from thy
Sluiced out his innocent soul through streams of blood:
About my moneys and my usances:
May fright the hopeful mother at the view;
And do not interrupt me in my course.
I have borne this business.
When I came hither to transport the tidings,
What service wilt thou do me, if I give them?
But look'd not on the poison of their hearts :
A rush, a hair, a drop of blood, a pin,
And all things answerable to this portion.
I am Pericles of Tyre: but tell me now
Than if the earl were here; for men must think,
And graves have yawn'd, and yielded up their dead;
He's father, son, and husband mild;
We will spare for no wit, I warrant you; here's
Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill:
To dash our late decree in parliament
For, I am sure, you have your hands full all,
And he hath promised to dismiss the powers
Courage, my masters! honour now or never!
Rides on the posting winds and doth belie
I would, while it was smiling in my face,
But you the best. Pages and lights, to conduct
The King of Naples, whosoe'er thou art.
These hands shall tear her; if they wrong her honour,
If there be truth in sight, you are my Rosalind.
Lay her a-hold, a-hold! set her two courses off to
I'll order take my mother shall not hear.
Under these hard conditions as this time
And with full line of his authority,
not have hit, I can watch you for telling how I took
Ba, pueritia, with a horn added.
virtues: yet at last she concluded with a sigh, thou
A play there is, my lord, some ten words long,
With the brave beast: so far he topp'd my thought,
If thou dost, I shall never love thee after. Why,
My haste is very great: farewell; hie home.
Forerunning more requital.
Exeunt
my master and mistress are almost frozen to death.
My lord, I long to hear it at full.
To the young Roman boy she hath sold me, and I fall
And I with him, and many moe with me,
I had my father's signet in my purse,
Let Antony look over Caesar's head
But rather one that smiles and still invites
And thou shalt still remain the Duke of York.
Please you, deliberate a day or two.
Marcius, I had rather had eleven die nobly for their
appearing what we are, have some question with the
Or shall we on the helmets of our foes
Exit SPEED
Bidding the law make court'sy to their will:
Bettering thy loss makes the bad causer worse:
The Lord in heaven bless thee, noble Harry!
While we lie tumbling in the hay.
That, when thou comest to kneel at Henry's feet,
As upon thee, Macbeth, their speeches shine--
That I am sudden sick: quick, and return.
Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul;
I married them; and their stol'n marriage-day
What noise is this?
It is Brabantio. General, be advised;
As oft it loses all: I will be gone;
Take up a brace o' the best of them; yea, the
Some certain treason.
Pretty too! What say you, James Soundpost?
Alarums. Enter KING RICHARD III
So may your highness, and yet punish too.
In the good man's distress! Seek, seek for him;
Exeunt HERO and URSULA
but as there is no more plenty in it, it goes much
What, are ye daunted now? now will ye stoop?
Not shall we need his help these fourteen days.
I'll make death love me; for I will contend
unserviceable: the troops are all scattered, and
to their charge.
Out of self-bounty, be abused; look to't:
One fit to bandy with thy lawless sons,
This comes off well; here's a wise officer.
Is this Menenius?
For England.
Alas, alas!
Here did she fall a tear; here in this place
Madam, speak true. It is not so, my lord:
More at your request than to please myself.
Either from Venice, or some unhatch'd practise
And soar with them above a common bound.
Now, when thou wakest, with thine
Which, but three glasses since, we gave out split--
eyes of Troilus. Ne'er look, ne'er look: the eagles
Till the tree die!
A goodly day not to keep house, with such
I am going to visit the prisoner. Fare you well.
Why, that's my bawcock. What, hast
our princess English?
swallowed love with singing love, sometime through
long, I must get a sconce for my head and ensconce
Before the wheels of Phoebus, round about
You have now a broken banquet; but we'll mend it.
Sleeps in Elysium; next day after dawn,
of him, Emilia, though he be thy husband. How say
No, faith, lords and great men will not let me; if
That I may speak with you, O, good my lord!
Ay, that a' did.
Enter at one door PERICLES talking with CLEON; all  the train with them. Enter at another door a  Gentleman, with a letter to PERICLES; PERICLES  shows the letter to CLEON; gives the Messenger a  reward, and knights him. Exit PERICLES at one door, and CLEON at another
In general riot; melted down thy youth
That I in all despite might rail at him,
I am question'd by my fears, of what may chance
Two hot sheeps, marry.
Speak of it: stay, and speak! Stop it, Marcellus.
A' shall not tread on me;
bell-wether, and to betray a she-lamb of a
And fought the holy wars in Palestine,
That I should snarl and bite and play the dog.
Believe't, till I wept too.
Wast born to bear? I was not made a horse;
What does he mean? since death of my dear'st mother
of his Desdemona; who let us not therefore blame:
It is my son, young Harry Percy,
So much by weight hate I her Diomed:
And let belief and life encounter so
And afterward by substitute betroth'd
But how camest thou by this ring? At my depart
There is occasions and causes why and wherefore in
It is now apparent?
[Aside to CLARENCE]  You shall have four, if you'll
sincerely: had I a dozen sons, each in my love
No words!
He likewise gives a frock or livery,
Pray, innocent, and beware the foul fiend.
And hinder them from what this ecstasy
Where is Demetrius? O, how fit a word
They say he is already in the forest of Arden, and
His tedious measures with the unbated fire
Ay, or more than we should seek after; for we know
That you did nothing purpose 'gainst the state;
majestically, both in word and matter, hang me up by
Yet, by mine honour, I will deal in this
For I am arm'd so strong in honesty
By this same coxcomb that we have i' the wind,
ALONSO, SEBASTIAN  and c. draw their swords
three; for so I have promised, and I'll be as good
Who then shall blame
Bring it, I pray you, to the Porpentine;
Proceed, Moon.
Will you ha' the truth on't? If this had not been
To weep is to make less the depth of grief:
[Aside]  What I do next, shall be to tell the king
I'll stir them to it. Come, away, away!
And I do stand engaged to many Greeks,
Stabs himself
Their pricks at my footfall; sometime am I
rather praised for this than mocked; for it is as
How now! where's thy master? at my cousin
Then be it as you will; for 'tis my right,
Thou wondrous man.
Was't you that revell'd in our parliament,
Whose execution takes your enemy off,
For love of her that's gone,
That I am meek and gentle with these butchers!
Now, by my mother's son, and that's myself,
In right of Arthur do I claim of thee:
How innocent she died; and if your love
Therefore no marvel though Demetrius
The English force, so please you.
My general will forget my love and service.
Last thing he did, dear queen,
O hateful hands, to tear such loving words!
To make great haste. All fast? what means this? Ho!
fellows are these that come after?
Of stout Mercutio, and then Tybalt fled;
Alas, that love, so gentle in his view,
With thy sharp teeth this knot intrinsicate
If she be furnish'd with a mind so rare,
Had so much grace to put it in my mind.
As in this glorious and well-foughten field
The lamps of night in revel; is not more man-like
I love thee better now than e'er I did.
We came into the world like brother and brother;
That it enchants my sense: what will it be,
As swift as lead, sir.
Once more adieu! my father at the road
That ever wretched age hath look'd upon.
I did not think you could have been so angry.
Have theirs, themselves and what is theirs, in compt,
His princess, say you, with him?
And little Ned Plantagenet, his son?
Therefore another prologue must tell he is not a lion.
That England was defamed by tyranny.
The other half in use, to render it,
It were dishonour to deny it her.
This tablet lay upon his breast, wherein
this true?
goodness in worm.
lute-case, bore it twelve leagues, and sold it for
his to her: it was a violent commencement, and thou
The which, how far off from the mind of Bolingbroke
Into the trunks of men: thy currish spirit
Exeunt
As well of glib and slippery creatures as
And that you look'd for him this day in Padua.
I will receive it, sir, with all diligence of
Yes, in good sooth, the vice is of a great kindred;
If both remain alive: to take the widow
Lead to the Sagittary the raised search;
I pray now, keep below.
principal itself not much the worse: away with 't!
What, have you met with her?
to pluck him off me, how he swore, how she prayed,
I will be assured I may; and, that I may be assured,
And quit the house on purpose, that their punishment
Sleeping or waking, 'tis no matter how,
Let there be sung 'Non nobis' and 'Te Deum;'
Thy head, thy sovereign; one that cares for thee,
to understand you have prevailed, I am no further
A' would have ten shares.
may be ready for our apprehension.
I cannot blame them all: what is't to them?
Offend our hearing; hush! How dare you ghosts
In a most weak--
But that I did proceed upon just grounds
Thy youngest daughter does not love thee least;
Sir,
And are by me with child,'  and c. This is done:
Cobloaf!
sixpence a day for playing Pyramus, I'll be hanged;
friend for a man. I keep but three men and a boy
The bold winds speechless and the orb below
majesty, and your great-uncle Edward the Plack
These are the youths that thunder at a playhouse,
I shall be counsell'd.
This prophecy Merlin shall make; for I live before his time.
That I may never have you in suspect.
And then to Brittany I'll cross the sea,
Off with his son George's head!
How he did seem to dive into their hearts
Exeunt CORIOLANUS and AUFIDIUS
Peace, my lord; hear, hear--
Yes, certain, there's a letter for you; I saw't.
Give place: by heaven, thou shalt rule no more
This child of fancy, that Armado hight,
Great Master of France, the brave Sir Guichard Dolphin,
But see, his face is black and full of blood,
Is almost finish'd, and her epitaphs
So farewell, Reignier: set this diamond safe
Alas, good gentleman! alas, good Cassio!
I shall not fail to approve the fair conceit
Him will I tear out of that cruel eye,
And so, have at thee!
Description cannot suit itself in words
At thy choice, then:
That blinking Cupid gossips. Now shall he--
It is no matter-a ver dat: do not you tell-a me
If you'll back to the court--
This Antioch, then, Antiochus the Great
The very wings of reason to his heels
Such attribution should the Douglas have,
And mine, a hundred and forty.
I said, my lord, if you did know my parentage,
DON
If you will patiently dance in our round
Will bear no colour for the thing he is,
PROLOGUE
May stand in number, though in reckoning none,
Flies where you bid it, I find that she, which late
I should but teach him how to tell my story.
So great as our dread father in a scale
And when the dusky sky began to rob
And when she speaks, is it not an alarum to love?
O mother, mother!
Done. The wager?
SCENE III. Bohemia. A desert country near the sea.
I know not, sweet: I found it in my chamber.
Shall I deny you? no: farewell, my lord.
To come and sport: her peacocks fly amain:
O heaven! O heavenly powers!
Heavens thank you for't! And now, I pray you, sir,
With this kiss take my blessing: God protect thee!
Hath made the flinty and steel couch of war
Than is his father's, must embrace the fate
The rather will I spare my praises towards him:
and your sister. Angelo had never the purpose to
These are a side that would be glad to have
Thanks, gentle Norfolk: stay by me, my lords;
For in revenge of my contempt of love,
fancy, the jerks of invention? Imitari is nothing:
Enter DEMETRIUS and PHILO
How, my lord, I may be censured, that nature thus
You did mistake.
sea again; lay her off.
Which finds it an inforced pilgrimage.
Seeing his dead father
Well, well, come on: who else?
The Breton navy is dispersed by tempest:
Look on the tragic loading of this bed;
ill employment!
but, I warrant thee, Claudio, the time shall not go
May be, nor can I think the contrary,
The devil himself.
All things that you should use to do me wrong
Confound themselves. 'Tis strange that death
Marry, sir, we say we are none.
How now! where's the king?
Nay, that follows not.
Is my lord well, that he doth speak so wide?
As these poor pickaxes can dig; and when
You serve Octavius Caesar, do you not?
What a caterwauling do you keep here! If my lady
Have,' said she, 'given his mistress that confection
O, sir, she makes no doubt of that.
whoreson dog! you slave! you cur!
With whom yourself, myself and other lords,
What we will do, we do upon command.
And how you find of her.
No court, no father; nor no more ado
The very life seems warm upon her lip.
Presenting a small box
Ourselves alone. I'll write it: follow me.
Among a sisterhood of holy nuns:
Thou that art like enough, through vassal fear,
'Nearest his heart:' those are the very words.
What, wilt thou not? then, Clarence, do it thou.
that never prayed before, how I cried, how the
I show it most of all when I show justice;
Bring thou this fiend of Scotland and myself;
When well-apparell'd April on the heel
gentleman's saying.
To your proceedings; yet believe me, prince,
Nothing else: you shall see him a palm in Athens
Hide not thy poison with such sugar'd words;
There is my gage, Aumerle, in gage to thine:
To catch my death with jaunting up and down!
The sinew and the forehand of our host,
With whose sweet smell the air shall be perfumed;
And will not let belief take hold of him
Thy gown? why, ay: come, tailor, let us see't.
Let me still take away the harms I fear,
soldier keep his oath?
In the extremity of great and little,
Poor Tom shall lead thee.
Which I have wonder'd at. In hope it shall not,
'twere not as good deed as drink, to break the pate
Princes, it is too late to talk of love;
How many weary steps,
Not able to produce more accusation
Have you deliver'd to her our decree?
So says the prince and my new-trothed lord.
With old odd ends stolen out of holy writ;
Exeunt
A lioness hath whelped in the streets;
His head by nature framed to wear a crown,
Kneel not to me:
Well, march we on,
In that word's death; no words can that woe sound.
Most of our city did: only myself stood out;
Thou shalt not die: die for adultery! No:
Comest thou again for ransom?
As surely as I live, my lord.
Great king, I am no strumpet, by my life;
A comfort of retirement lives in this.
This being granted in course,--and now follows
God in thy good cause make thee prosperous!
He is my prize; I will not look upon.
I would we had a thousand Roman dames
Ye shall have a hempen caudle, then, and the help of hatchet.
The trust, the office I do hold of you,
He will recover straight: when he is gone,
nuncle, and I'll give thee two crowns.
Teach thou this sorrow how to make me die,
Whom fair befal in heaven 'mongst happy souls!
My Lord Sands.
O Charmian, I will never go from hence.
But the queen's kindred and night-walking heralds
What proof shall I make of that?
face me. Give me a cup of sack: I am a rogue, if I
door would speak with you: he says he comes from
And wishes fall out as they're will'd.
By smiling pick-thanks and base news-mongers,
This hath been
I pray thee, peace: my soul is full of sorrow.
Where manners ne'er were preach'd! out of my sight!
are in love too. Yet I profess curing it by counsel.
man to kill him: 't has been proved. If I were a
never a worthier man.
Of good old Abraham! Lords appellants,
Of teaching and of learning instantly.
an end of him; for my soul, yet I know not why,
Have thrice disturb'd the quiet of our streets,
About him, fairies; sing a scornful rhyme;
To help me after? I will kiss thy lips;
Know of your youth, examine well your blood,
till some little time hath qualified the heat of
Exit
Beelzebub? Here's a farmer, that hanged
Exit PORTIA
He that no more must say is listen'd more
Frighted each other? why should he follow?
And by the leave of my good lord the king,
With bracelets of thy hair, rings, gawds, conceits,
Sir, they are spoken, and these things are true.
'Faith, that's with watching; 'twill away again:
You did continue fault and that you slipp'd not
Enter CORIOLANUS in mean apparel, disguised and muffled
No, he's a yeoman that has a gentleman to his son;
God be wi' you; take mine office. O wretched fool.
The leisure and enforcement of the time
I will, and know her mind early to-morrow;
I warrant you, madam.
Thou art a murderer.
To call his fortunes thine.
I urged our old acquaintance, and the drops
If he miscarry, farewell wars in France.
And placed a quire of such enticing birds,
Boy, Lucius! Varro! Claudius! Sirs, awake! Claudius!
Be not her maid, since she is envious;
she's dead,
How swift his ship.
Would sing her song and dance her turn; now here,
Enter HAMLET
You live that shall cry woe for this after.
deserve more; a punishment too.
Faith, he is gone unto the taming-school.
France being ours, we'll bend it to our awe,
Beauties no richer than rich taffeta.
More than God or religious churchmen may.
And, hark, what discord follows! each thing meets
hot, my very lips might freeze to my teeth, my
If we compose well here, to Parthia:
Now, knock when I bid you, sirrah villain!
an unshunned consequence; it must be so. Art going
'Tis not the king that sends you to the Tower:
the Bunch of Grapes, where indeed you have a delight
But shall we wear these honours for a day?
Dapples the drowsy east with spots of grey.
Who's there that knocks?
O, well begg'd!
Yes, certainly, and out of doubt and out of question
Be wary then; best safety lies in fear:
As may be in the world, lady.
For the Lord's tokens on you do I see.
The winds grow high; so do your stomachs, lords.
seen, man's hand is not able to taste, his tongue
By gar, he is de coward Jack priest of de vorld; he
Imprison'd is he, say you?
Sir, he answered me in the roundest manner, he would
I'll crop, to make a garland for my head.
Whom with my bare fists I would execute,
Come, Sir Andrew, there's no remedy; the gentleman
Pray, tell 'em thus much from me:
How if the nurse be asleep and will not hear us?
Nay, an you begin to rail on society once, I am
With their finest palate: and trust to me, Ulysses,
what I am: I must be sad when I have cause and smile
Could not drop forth such giant-rude invention
Was to be gone from Athens, where we might,
[Aside]  If that be call'd deceit, I will be honest,
The seven-fold shield of Ajax cannot keep
Upon thy foul disease. Revoke thy doom;
It was the owl that shriek'd, the fatal bellman,
I say my prayers aloud.
For any suit of pounds; and you, O fate!
belongs to a watch.
lately spoke of him admiringly and mourningly: he
These news are every where; every tongue speaks 'em,
Though in some part enforced to digress;
That you did fear is done.
I hear his drum: be copious in exclaims.
How shall I best convey the ladder thither?
awake your senses, that you may the better judge.
Sir, your queen must overboard: the sea works high,
Most mighty princess, that I have adventured
Go, sickness as thou art!
And fit for great employment, worthy lord.
What seest thou in me, York? why dost thou pause?
For the hot vengeance and the rod of heaven
And not by old gradation, where each second
ANTIPHOLUS
But spoke the harm that is by others done?
Are base respects of thrift, but none of love:
Even by the rule of that philosophy
Enter CAPULET, with JULIET and others of his house, meeting the Guests and Maskers
Is niece to England: look upon the years
her heart but the tyranny of her sorrows takes all
Thy will by my performance shall be served:
Shall then be his, and like a vine grow to him:
His hour is almost past.
Now my sworn friend and then mine enemy,
And then I would no other company.
If he were dead, you'ld weep for
But let concealment, like a worm i' the bud,
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus and the Officer
And in this hand the other I will bear.
I wait upon his pleasure. Come, Sir Thurio,
gracious Duncan
They draw
and skirts, round underborne with a bluish tinsel:
With harsh resounding trumpets' dreadful bray,
Thou shalt stand cursed and excommunicate.
To melt the city leads upon your pates,
Than bees that made 'em.
I wish him joy of her.
To grudge my pleasures, to cut off my train,
The noble Duke of Clarence to your hands:
of so much money, be now a gainer? Good body, I
To counsel deaf, but not to flattery!
Enter LADY CAPULET
As yet the lamentation of the French
Dost thou mock me?
Fills the wide vessel of the universe.
Because I cannot flatter and speak fair,
And, at his pleasure, will resign my place.
More than I do?--except I be provoked.
sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him of
The Dukes of Orleans, Calaber, Bretagne and Alencon,
The cause why I have brought this army hither
What is the matter, ho? who is't that cried?
Intolerable, not to be endured!
Clear up, fair queen, that cloudy countenance:
But soon that war had end, and the time's state
It is not the fashion to see the lady the epilogue;
Yet, when we can entreat an hour to serve,
And there the little souls of Edward's children
To wear away this long age of three hours
I bid them that did love their country's good
He had so; looking as it were--would I were hanged,
Where small experience grows. But in a few,
Is it sir Robert's son that you seek so?
Speak, brave Hector: we are much delighted.
Methinks she should not use a long one for such a
his flesh: what's that good for?
here! but 'tis most certain your husband's coming,
I then do most go right.
When could they say till now, that talk'd of Rome,
And the gods make her prosperous!
talk of his horse; and he makes it a great
Cassio, Cassio!
A very riband in the cap of youth,
No funeral rite, nor man m mourning weeds,
Whiles you are willing it shall come to note,
Aside
Let me hire him too: here's my coxcomb.
In the adventure of this perilous day.
It cannot be: some villains of my court
Lifting his hand
blasted woods,
Forbear, forbear, I say! it is my lord the duke.
To equal him, I will make myself a knight presently.
I'll grow less; for I'll purge, and leave sack, and
Of Hamlet's wildness: so shall I hope your virtues
And died that day when Viola from her birth
I mean, my lords, those powers that the queen
By my consent, we'll even let them alone.
You would for paradise break faith, and troth;
True, worthy Banquo; he is full so valiant,
Despair not, madam.
You may do it in an hour, sir.
Continued so, until we thought he died.
Trumpets sound. Enter TIMON, addressing himself  courteously to every suitor; a Messenger from  VENTIDIUS talking with him; LUCILIUS and other servants following
Would feed on one another? What's their seeking?
A prize no less in worth: keep this man safe;
His nature is too noble for the world:
And the great Hector's sword had lack'd a master,
And out of question so it is sometimes,
As this pomp shows to a little oil and root.
Let this be so;
The sky, it seems, would pour down stinking pitch,
That both should speed?
Will hold thee dearly for thy mother's sake.'
Take her away.
That to my home I will no more return,
I told him what I thought, and told no more
O, God ye god-den.
Give me mine own again; 'twere no good part
For God forbid so many simple souls
What, is Antonio here?
Talk with respect and swear but now and then,
It cannot be, an if thou wert his mother.
There's no more faith in thee than in a stewed
I Pompey am,--
Re-enter Thisbe
He sent me hither, stranger as I am,
Yours, sir,
I would it might prove the end of his losses.
Well, she looked yesternight fairer than ever I saw
a man born in April.
Should seek a plaster by contemn'd revolt,
Varro and Claudius!
He had not my virginity.
On him, his sons, his favourites and his friends.
secrets! I'll after, to rejoice in the boy's correction.
be, I will marry thee, and to that end I have been
Enter BIRON
And, having sworn truth, ever will be true.
Like to his father's greatness: his approach,
Bid them wash their faces
His counsel now might do me golden service;
Well, well, no more of that.
much. No, he shall not knit a knot in his fortunes
Why, so he did, I am sure.
Re-enter WHITMORE with SUFFOLK's body
Lest I revenge. What, myself upon myself?
Even so?
I have had feeling of my cousin's wrongs
Even so mayst thou the giddy men of Rome.
By all description this should be the place.
To PROCULEIUS and the Guard
That plotted thus our glory's overthrow?
Shall I re-deliver you e'en so?
Something, sure, of state,
That seest a game play'd home, the rich stake drawn,
Proceed, Solinus, to procure my fall
Ere he take ship for France, and in Southampton.
And none your foes but such as shall pretend
I had rather have one scratch my head i' the sun
Pardon me, madam: little joy have I
Give me the light: upon thy life, I charge thee,
as Claudio's, to cross this in the smallest.
There.
The strangeness of your story put
strain were in the same distress.
Yes, my conscience, he did us great good.
Enter three or four Servingmen, with spits, logs, and baskets
Despised substance of divinest show!
'Tis no matter: ne'er a fantastical knave of them
Why, then may you leave a casement of the great
mote out of his conscience: and dying so, death
the year! we'ld find no fault with the tithe-woman,
In this the madman justly chargeth them.
Ay me! this tyrant fever burns me up,
My best and freshest men; served his designments
I will denounce a curse upon his head.
Give me thy hand, Kate: I will unto Venice,
Exeunt
The Page whistles
Fate, show thy force: ourselves we do not owe;
Whose fortunes shall rise higher, Caesar's or mine?
Hear me, dear lady; I have sworn an oath.
A man worth any woman, overbuys me
whom I am now in ward, evermore in subjection.
A husband and a son thou owest to me;
Yes, mine's three thousand crowns: what's yours?
On that celestial harmony I go to.
Than a delightful measure or a dance;
As it is here set down.
Were it not that my fellow-school-master
man: and then to 'scape drowning thrice, and to be
And, having gilt the ocean with his beams,
They do suggest at first with heavenly shows,
Open the gates, or I'll shut thee out shortly.
Release my brother; and, after much debatement,
Begin your suits anew, and sue to him.
This sudden mischief never could have fall'n.
notable fellow.
What is the end of study? let me know.
Hunts not the trail of policy so sure
Gods and goddesses,
Maids as we are, to travel forth so far!
They have the wisdom by their wit to lose.
Of present death.
Let me question more in particular: what have you,
Enter MACBETH, BANQUO, ROSS, and ANGUS
Swifter than the moon's sphere;
Lechery, lechery; still, wars and lechery; nothing
That as Ulysses and stout Diomede
Were harbour'd in their rude circumference.
And why, my lady wisdom? hold your tongue,
It is not Agamemnon's sleeping hour:
So did we all. But, come, let's home.
The noble duke hath been too much abused.
Till then sit still, my soul: foul deeds will rise,
Nay then you jest, and now I well perceive
A little more lenity to lechery would do no harm in
And ruthless slaughters as are daily seen
For revels, dances, masks and merry hours
commendation.
Pardon me, pardon me.
A land itself at large, a potent dukedom.
We never yet made doubt but Rome was ready
Agreed: I'll to yond corner.
We did not quote them so.
Ay, forsooth; to desire her to--
Come, lady, come. Farewell, my friend.
The senate hath sent about three several guests
As that ungentle hull, the cuckoo's bird,
Deserve we no more reverence?
That is her ransom; I deliver her;
honour, if I were but two hours younger, I'ld beat
For he fears none.
And rap me well, or I'll knock your knave's pate.
Yonder, sure, they are coming: let us now stay and see it.
O, mickle is the powerful grace that lies
His tyranny for trifles; his own bastardy,
No, I will speak.
What prince is that?
To thy suggestion, plot, and damned practise:
Scorns to unsay what once it hath deliver'd.
Charles, good night.
go follow them to prison:
I cannot justify whom the law condemns.
Accursed and unquiet wrangling days,
Go to; I'll make ye know your times of business:
O Ratcliff, I have dream'd a fearful dream!
So many journeys may the sun and moon
Be like a king and show my sail of greatness
Appears before them, and with solemn march
All in this presence are thy betters, Warwick.
Make mingle with rattling tabourines;
Horrible villain! or I'll spurn thine eyes
Enter THALIARD
And water cannot wash away your sin.
as I command you.
When they change us for others? Is it sport?
Nothing so heavy as these woes of mine.
Why follow'd not, when she said 'Tybalt's dead,'
For them all together; which maintained so politic
SCENE III. Juliet's chamber.
Alive again? then show me where he is:
He misses not much.
You are welcome, sir.
I am her mother, sir, whose age and honour
Why, knows not Montague that of itself
ape: he so near to Hermione hath done Hermione that
Since Henry's death, I fear, there is conveyance.
Doth your honour see any harm in his face?
medicinable to me: I am sick in displeasure to him,
Enter FERDINAND king of Navarre, BIRON, LONGAVILLE and DUMAIN
Exeunt
And ask no other dowry with her but such another jest.
A freckled whelp hag-born--not honour'd with
Peering in April's front. This your sheep-shearing
Sir Thomas,
I will do a greater thing than that, upon your
It grieves my soul to leave thee unassail'd.
A virtue that was never seen in you.
I lose myself: better I were not yours
Wine, wine, wine! What service
Peace, I say.
Those things I bid you do, get them dispatch'd.
Whose party do the townsmen yet admit?
For thou hast kill'd the sweetest innocent
Say, shall the current of our right run on?
looks, your red-lattice phrases, and your
I am afraid; and yet I'll venture it.
I mean, sir, in delay
She it is.
Pray heaven it be state-matters, as you think,
other: and she bade me tell your worship that her
May Iden live to merit such a bounty.
You mend the jewel by the wearing it.
esteemed greatness, will you hear the dialogue that
Let's speak To him.
your ladyship. I have your own letter that induced
Harp not on that string, madam; that is past.
way: hark! you may know by their trumpets.
Ye all which it inherit, shall dissolve
To dress thy meat myself and bring it thee:
We shall not marry till thou bid'st us.
Be not offended, nature's miracle,
Omitting the sweet benefit of time
[Aside]  Ay, but, I fear me, with a hollow heart.--
Did he not moralize this spectacle?
Enter HECTOR and ANDROMACHE
When corn was given them gratis, you repined;
Yes, madam.
Believe me, I had rather have lost my purse
From my poor cheek? then he hath wasted it:
After him I love
We will solicit heaven and move the gods
And therefore fortify your hold, my lord.
they would talk themselves mad.
That ever fell upon this cursed earth.
Who, in the conflict that it holds with death,
Re-enter DEMETRIUS
Have bared my bosom to the thunder-stone;
But what indeed is honest to be done:
Sings in GONZALO's ear
Be here at Belmont; she doth stray about
marvel where Troilus is. Hark! do you not hear the
I prithee,
Timandra had gold of him: he likewise enriched poor
Some mortally, some slightly touch'd, some falling
Our neighbour shepherd's son!
The man hath seen some majesty, and should know.
SCENE VI. Camp before Florence.
Do not embrace me till each circumstance
O Lord, have mercy on us, wretched sinners!
The matter being afoot, keep your instruction,
The means that dusky Dis my daughter got,
To give the world assurance of a man:
Our Jovial star reign'd at his birth, and in
If thereon you rely. I'll take my leave.
Their proud contempt that beats His peace to heaven.
The Duke of Gloucester, to whom the order of the
sir, you know not which way you shall go.
To go out of my dialect, which you
Shall I not lie in publishing a truth?
We all have strongly sworn to give him aid;
her? and loving woo? and, wooing, she should
Whom you pretend to honour and adore,
'This is no flattery: these are counsellors
It was proclaimed a year's imprisonment, to be taken
Ah, women, women! come; we have no friend
In the last conflict, and made plenteous wounds!
With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
much out of quiet. For Monsieur Malvolio, let me
What, ostler! come away and be hanged!
musing: but for you--well, go to.
Turn melancholy forth to funerals;
As truth's authentic author to be cited,
displeasure in him by word or countenance?
I would have him poison'd with a pot of ale.
Whoe'er helps thee, 'tis thou that must help me:
'Tis, marvel, but that you are but newly come,
That we the horrider may seem to those
with a kiss, and let not him speak neither.
With horror, madly dying, like her life,
The shirt of Nessus is upon me: teach me,
Hastings, and Edward's children, Rivers, Grey,
I an itching palm!
Was like to be the best.
So hangs, and lolls, and weeps upon me; so hales,
Since I have set my friends at peace on earth.
Princely in both.
That will not suffer you to square yourselves,
His father's acts commenced in burning Troy!
Our fine musician groweth amorous.
That he was fain to seal on Cupid's name.
Which can as well inflame as it can kill.
Sans witchcraft could not.
That we must leave thee to thy sinking, for
'Tis nothing less: conceit is still derived
Exit
Seven year and a half, sir.
A greater gift! O, that's the sword to it.
As 'twere a knell unto our master's fortunes,
We will extenuate rather than enforce:
Great Lord of Warwick, if we should recount
I, as Aeneas, our great ancestor,
I do desire no more.
has given you one face, and you make yourselves
And lift my soul to heaven. Lead on, o' God's name.
in Warwickshire? My good Lord of Westmoreland, I
Is sum of something, which, to term in gross,
And God acquit them of their practises!
He gave his honours to the world again,
Pardon me, sweet one, even for the vows
And, when the work of generation was
What will Count Rousillon do then? will he travel
I will most thankful be; and thanks to men
Enter the KING OF FRANCE, the DAUPHIN, the DUKE oF BOURBON, the Constable Of France, and others
Who loves to lie with me,
Wherever in your sightless substances
flame-coloured stock. Shall we set about some revels?
Their courage with hard labour tame and dull,
No; if I mistake
The luce is the fresh fish; the salt fish is an old coat.
very rags, to split the ears of the groundlings, who
Fates, we will know your pleasures:
I do.
Kissing her
I better brook than flourishing peopled towns:
The proudest of them shall well hear of it.
It was great ignorance, Gloucester's eyes being out,
O my Antonio, had I but the means
In marriage, with a large and sumptuous dowry.
Whilst all tongues cried 'God save thee,
Nay, that's right; but why wear you your leek today?
If it prove so, I will be gone the sooner.
What, ho, Mistress Page! come you and the old woman
was in that credit with them at that time that I
Upon a lie seven times removed:--bear your body more
Enter FENTON
Gives me this instance: already he hath carried
Hath to it circumstantial branches, which
throstle sing, he falls straight a capering: he will
To quicken your increase, I will beget
Am I your bird? I mean to shift my bush;
Enter CASSANDRA
Aside to CARDINAL
SCENE II. Verona. JULIA'S house.
Hast thou the pretty worm of Nilus there,
gaols and let out the prisoners.
Under your hard construction must I sit,
not care; but to be Menelaus, I would conspire
The sister to my wife, this gentlewoman,
That is done, sir; they have all stomachs.
An't shall please your majesty, I never said nor
Good night, my lord.
Wake when some vile thing is near.
Come, go we to the king; our power is ready;
Is't not possible to understand in another tongue?
himself in Thames up to the neck; and so I would he
And the complexion of the element
your house.' He could be contented: why is he not,
Which flashes now a phoenix. Get you gone.
Immoment toys, things of such dignity
The aweless lion could not wage the fight,
The envious barking of your saucy tongue
Hanging the head at Ceres' plenteous load?
what he gets more of her than sharp words, let it
Of what is to be dreaded.
What answers Clarence to his sovereign's will?
Did softly press the rushes, ere he waken'd
Enter BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS
Then the boy's fat l'envoy, the goose that you bought;
What's your highness' pleasure?
Then take we down his load, and turn him off,
And Cassio high in oath; which till to-night
Her virtues graced with external gifts
There to remain.
I've seen myself, and served against, the French,
My lord protector will, I doubt it not,
Fie, brother, fie! teach her not thus to lay
Her doors lock'd?
A miracle! here's our own hands against our hearts.
her shoe, which is baser, guided by her foot, which
brief and the tedious of it; and he's of a most
Who am myself attach'd with weariness,
Beseech you, sir, were you present at this relation?
I hate him for he is a Christian,
here she comes.
Our praises are our wages: you may ride's
This is a fellow of the self-same colour
Now is a time to storm; why art thou still?
At whose approach, ghosts, wandering here and there,
in mine eyes too, and such an ache in my bones
What, what, what!
Stabb'd in my angry mood at Tewksbury?
'In terram Salicam mulieres ne succedant:'
here, sir; a man of four-score pound a year; whose
SCENE II. KING JOHN'S palace.
The words would add more anguish than the wounds.
I am indeed.
No, my good lord, but, as you did command,
A plague on thee! thou art too bad to curse.
Gloucester, thou wilt answer this before the pope.
Enter SIR RICHARD VERNON
That keeps you in the house, and not your own.
If you deny me, fie upon your law!
I was too young that time to value her;
I would they would forget me, like the virtues
The one half of my commission; and set down--
And I for no woman.
words are a very fantastical banquet, just so many
And when I am on horseback, I will swear
to thy flatterers?
Will sate itself in a celestial bed,
Peace, you dull fool! I found them on a tree.
Hie to your chamber: I'll find Romeo
of the prince's subjects.
I will content you, if what pleases you contents
I know not how to tell thee who I am:
before such villains! Masters, it is proved already
Mine ears against your suits are stronger than
The purpose why, is here: in which disguise,
To the last gasp, with truth and loyalty.
Out of the king's protection. This is my charge.
As I in duty love my king and country!
Than yet can be imagined or supposed.
With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.
Than what befalls myself. You stand amazed;
Well; then I shall see thee again?
you: let the justices make you and fortune friends:
Not to be married,
Flourish. Exeunt
The name
Spending his manly marrow in her arms,
at their society, as their friendship, may
is mad, and sent into England.
From twelve to seventy, and pouring war
What, stand'st thou idle here? lend me thy sword:
Good maid, then.
man, I'll do you your master what good I can: and
The wreck of all my friends, nor this man's threats,
O'erborne their way, consumed with fire, and took
Thunder and lightning. Enter three Witches
horses, by our habits and by every other
Which soon he granted,
Smooth runs the water where the brook is deep;
Are pleased to breed out your inheritors:
For all the world like cutler's poetry
How tartly that gentleman looks! I never can see
Does not become a man: 'tis much to blame.
But wise men, folly-fall'n, quite taint their wit.
Master, go on, and I will follow thee,
God Neptune's annual feast to keep: from whence
How long her face is drawn? how pale she looks,
To tear and havoc more than she can eat.
And wonder of good deeds evilly bestow'd!
appropriation to his own good parts, that he can
Thou canst not say I did it: never shake
Free from gross passion or of mirth or anger,
Prithee bring him in; and let him approach singing.
as many of your players do, I had as lief the
Fie, de la Pole! disable not thyself;
Alarum
And of the heat of the ginger. It is a beast for
Whiles others play the idiots in her eyes!
And I am going with instruction to him.
Because I love you, I will let you know:
The crown of England, father, which is yours.
Think so, Iago!
If you will mark it.
Ay, what of that?
Would not entreat for life?
Had he the motive and the cue for passion
Who know the world, see heaven, but, feeling woe,
That, were I crown'd the most imperial monarch,
And on his more advice we pardon him.
To join with him and right his heinous wrongs.
O noble fellow!
What sorrow craves acquaintance at my hand,
slave, strike.
Be great in act, as you have been in thought;
Do you love me?
his recoveries: is this the fine of his fines, and
And let me be a slave, to achieve that maid
So please you, it is true: our thane is coming:
To deck thy body with his ruffling treasure.
And tell his wife that, being lunatic,
Take all, and wean it; it may prove an ox.
In their poor praise he humbled. Such a man
I take't, 'tis later, sir.
Of smiling peace to march a bloody host,
And I will take thy word: yet if thou swear'st,
It is for you we speak, not for ourselves:
O, sir, you are deceived.
In a most hideous and dreadful manner:
'tis a good dog.
Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
So, when this loose behavior I throw off
Sith priest and holy water are so near
Who has done this, Sir Andrew?
For ruin's wasteful entrance: there, the murderers,
So shall Biron take me for Rosaline.
Enter HORATIO and a Servant
Importune him once more to go, my lord;
There is no more such masters: I may wander
That I stand up, and have ingenious feeling
Let not our ships and number of our men
O'er, point by point, for yet he seems to doubt,
Amen. Dear goddess, hear that prayer of the people!
Your honour knows what 'tis to say well enough.
I should not see the sandy hour-glass run,
Marry, you may partly hope that your father got you
Kindly! Sir, I pray, let me ha't: I have wounds to
ne'er a tongue in my head. Well, if any man in
The cloth of honour over her, are four barons
Forgive a moiety of the principal;
you, and so now I speak my agitation of the matter:
Seyton!--I am sick at heart,
apparel and to cry like a woman; but I must comfort
Prithee, come; will you?
But now the blood of twenty thousand men
And gives them what he will, not what they crave.
Shall be your love and labour's recompense.
If she be made of white and red,
Boyet, you can produce acquittances
Poor queen! how love to me and to her son
Be general leprosy! Breath infect breath,
ACT III
The gods themselves do weep!
Look through a casement to allure false hearts
Thy deeds, thy plainness and thy housekeeping,
Talk not to me: I will go sit and weep
To CLEOPATRA
And so am I; my name is Walter Whitmore.
Wear gold: and no man that hath a name,
Exit Sergeant
We trifle time: I pray thee, pursue sentence.
When I come where he calls, then he is gone.
arrant cowards, there's no equity stirring: there's
These eyes, that now are dimm'd with death's black veil,
No, the world must be peopled. When I said I would
Thou shalt be then freer than a gaoler; no bolts for the dead.
And faints for succor.
And question'dst every sail: if he should write
To EDGAR and KENT
The noisome weeds, which without profit suck
And use of service, none; contract, succession,
Brave warriors, Clifford and Northumberland,
No, Caius Marcius;
So the poor chicken should be sure of death.
I did not see you since you sent me hence,
Most ignorant of what he's most assured,
I can as well be hanged as tell the manner of it:
His plate, his goods, his money and his lands.
Be guilty of the stealing that sweet breath
shift a trencher? he scrape a trencher!
Who shall not be more dear to my respect
Curse not thyself, fair creature thou art both.
whoreson, obscene, grease tallow-catch,--
Now, my masters, happy man be his dole, say I:
Come, therefore, let us fly while we may fly:
A gentler heart did never sway in court;
But in this troublous time what's to be done?
Heaven shield my mother play'd my father fair!
And sent you hither so unlike yourself?
Posthumus, thy head, which now is growing upon thy
Stands still in esperance, lives not in fear:
Exit one with the Players
My lips, two blushing pilgrims, ready stand
Sought to entrap me by intelligence;
Are natural breath: but, howsoe'er you have
Stand you directly in Antonius' way,
Is on the life of Lear and on Cordelia:
Lord cardinal, if thou think'st on heaven's bliss,
Fellow, where goest?
this, give these fellows some means to the king:
I could not for my heart deny it him.
Once more, adieu: be valiant, and speed well!
He'll breed revengement and a scourge for me;
I have said.
Vapians passing the equinoctial of Queubus: 'twas
out of all reasonable match. If thou beest not
Hath any well-advised friend proclaim'd
And give them title, knee and approbation
O, that record is lively in my soul!
Than is her custom: it is still her use
Bound me in servitude.
Your folly.
COUNTESS
For I have often heard my mother say
gallantry of Troy: I  would fain have armed to-day,
Hard-handed men that work in Athens here,
cushion, or to be entombed in an ass's pack-
Why I descend into this bed of death,
Faith, and so it did.
Even to the opposed end of our intents:
I do so, I confess it. Ah, sirrah, a body would
So sure as this beard's grey,
They bore him barefaced on the bier;
But Montague is bound as well as I,
And, in a word, but even now worth this,
This proves you wise and rich, for in my eye,--
Shall Lewis have Blanch, and Blanch those provinces?
To disproportion me in every part,
Will you give thanks, sweet Kate; or else shall I?
the princess my sister called my father father; and
In his tongue.
I shall answer that better to the commonwealth than
And, look, how many Grecian tents do stand
him from't.
How often said, my dignity would last
To pray at fortune. Haply, for I am black
My heart as great, my reason haply more,
together and thrown over the shoulders like an
Do you amend it then; it lies in you:
My train are men of choice and rarest parts,
Than a great queen, with this condition,
To be more fresh, reviving. She is fool'd
And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
You are John Rugby, and you are Jack Rugby. Come,
I will discharge it in either your straw-colour
And rails, and swears, and rates, that she, poor soul,
protest unto thee--
He must before the deputy, sir; he has given him
Enter PRINCE HENRY and POINS
More than mistress of
And I unjustly too, must grant it you
By gar, nor I too: there is no bodies.
As traitors do.
If not by war, by surfeit die your king,
O, come, let us remove:
Whose edge is sharper than the sword, whose tongue
Take him hence; to the rack with him! We'll touse you
I will be his conduct.
My honours to you, upon his good returns.
And what may make him blush in being known,
I'll by a sign give notice to our friends,
And make a pastime of each weary step,
One drop of Christian blood, thy lands and goods
And make pretence of wrong that I have done him:
If you go on thus, you will kill yourself:
Not sensible of fire, remain'd unscorch'd.
SIR NATHANIEL retires
Exit
Young scamels from the rock. Wilt thou go with me?
she is sport for Jove.
Proud Saturnine, interrupter of the good
Enough: my soul shall then be satisfied.
The map of honour, truth and loyalty:
Trumpet sounds. Enter a Messenger
Madam, bethink you, like a careful mother,
Where serpents are; chain me with roaring bears;
Truth's a dog must to kennel; he must be whipped
Of any constant man. What, worse and worse!
And then dreams he of cutting foreign throats,
That is one may reach deep enough, and yet
He'ld sow't with nettle-seed.
Touch not the boy; he is of royal blood.
And call me father? better burn it now
Come home with me to supper; and I'll lay
heard in Genoa,--
one; they'll find linen enough on every hedge.
absent,--and there shall appear such seeming truth
They were not with Bassanio in his ship.
Nothing: I have sworn; I am firm.
Be near at hand; I may miscarry in't.
Why, this it is: my heart accords thereto,
As is the other for beauteous modesty.
Nor to no Roman else: so tell them, Publius.
Enter the BASTARD
Pardon him, sweet Timandra; for his wits
To have him see me woman'd.
Nothing I; but God send every one their heart's desire!
That's not my fear; my meed hath got me fame:
Here he comes, and in the gown of humility: mark his
Nod--Ay--why, that's noddy.
this head off from my shoulders.
Whilst the heavy ploughman snores,
Why do you rate my Lord of Suffolk thus?
Who would be jealous then of such a one?
Who, like a boar too savage, doth root up
I warrant it will.
But I will remedy this gear ere long,
Why, let her except, before excepted.
speak this in hunger for bread, not in thirst for revenge.
Endured all weathers.
Hail, many-colour'd messenger, that ne'er
Do not you love me?
[To IMOGEN]	Brother, stay here
He needs as many, sir, as Caesar has;
That you three fools lack'd me fool to make up the mess:
Pertaining thereunto, as fights and fireworks,
Myself the while to draw the Moor apart,
Sport royal, I warrant you: I know my physic will
Methought thy very gait did prophesy
[To MARINA]  First, I would have you note, this is
Now, God help thee, poor monkey!
Our free hearts each to other.
To be your servant.
But, heaven be thank'd, it is but voluntary.
For others say thou dost deserve, and I
For here it sleeps, and does no hired harm.
You valiant offspring of great Priamus.
off. Je quand sur le possession de France, et quand
ANTIPHOLUS
Trow you who hath done this?
Fled to England!
Doubt not, my lord, they shall be well opposed.
Which honour does acknowledge, whereof the least
Even in the afternoon of her best days,
You cannot shun Yourself.
And spit it bleeding in his high disgrace,
Would use his heaven for thunder;
If therefore you dare trust my honesty,
Shall I attend your lordship?
Unless you have the grace by your fair prayer
kersey boot-hose on the other, gartered with a red
And many an old man's sigh and many a widow's,
Most smiling, smooth, detested parasites,
A scar nobly got, or a noble scar, is a good livery
The which is good in nothing but in sight!
Where but by chance a silver drop hath fallen,
Ay me!
And here a prophet, that I brought with me
And come to deadly use.
And, at our stamp, here o'er and o'er one falls;
Why, let the stricken deer go weep,
A serving-man, proud in heart and mind; that curled
SCENE II. Another part of the wood.
He not respects at all. What, ho, Pisanio!
Is very good meat in lent
And let not search and inquisition quail
Enter a second Messenger
no more valour in that Poins than in a wild-duck.
The trumpets sound, and KING RICHARD enters with  his nobles, JOHN OF GAUNT, BUSHY, BAGOT, GREEN, and  others. When they are set, enter THOMAS MOWBRAY in arms, defendant, with a Herald
Did ever dragon keep so fair a cave?
SCENE I. Bristol. Before the castle.
SCENE II. The same.
and liking, proud, fantastical, apish, shallow,
Men's natures wrangle with inferior things,
Then leave this chat; and, good Biron, now prove
Ajax hath ta'en AEneas: shall it be?
So please your majesty, my master hath been an
See, Buckingham, Somerset comes with the queen:
That if our queen and this young prince agree,
My fate cries out,
Or swear before you choose, if you choose wrong
Ever in France shall be kept festival:
For tears do stop the flood-gates of her eyes.
And better used, would make her sainted spirit
A pick-axe, and a spade, a spade,
A kissing traitor. How art thou proved Judas?
Benedick's face,--
But I will charm him first to keep his tongue.
You have tripp'd since.
And not relent, or not compassion him?
Upon my hateful life: another way,
Cousin, a word; where is your husband?
O monstrous, monstrous! and so falls it out
Was set in worse than gold. They have in England
Tell me, thou villain slave, where are my children?
I do constantly believe you. The time is come even
have threaten'd
Unto the sweet bird's throat,
Here, say we drink this standing-bowl of wine to him.
And show us to be watchers. Be not lost
an thou wilt not, why, then, be enemies with me too.
So fled his enemies my warlike father:
Enter DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, and three or four with tapers
That others touch, and often touching will
God is our fortress, in whose conquering name
villany should be so rich; for when rich villains
Else would he never so demean himself.
They will by violence tear him from your palace
Of capital treason 'gainst the king and crown;
Let us not burthen our remembrance with
In most uneven and distracted manner. His actions
Promising to bring it to the Porpentine,
Run, Lucius, and commend me to my lord;
But by ten words, my lord, it is too long,
Shave the head, and tie the beard; and say it was
Will keep a league till death. Hie thee to France
when we are old?
Friar, not I	I have been drinking hard all night,
Thinks all is writ he speken can;
To AUSTRIA
When we with tears parted Pentapolis,
The mysteries of Hecate, and the night;
[Giving a paper]
reason to cool our raging motions, our carnal
Now, ere the sun advance his burning eye,
Than wishest should be undone.' Hie thee hither,
The noble knot he made.
I'll be no longer guilty of this sin; this sanguine
Your horrible pleasure: here I stand, your slave,
Upon thy words, that kill mine eye and heart!
Tell me for truth the measure of his love
Of what is past.
If guilty dread have left thee so much strength
It rain'd down fortune showering on your head;
Wilt thou provoke me? then have at thee, boy!
Were thicker than itself with brother's blood,
condition of blood, you should so know me. The
You are like to have a thin and slender pittance.
I would she did as you say.
Sit, Jessica. Look how the floor of heaven
Go, then; find me a meet hour to draw Don Pedro and
Lie at the proud foot of a conqueror,
Come on, sit down: come on, and do your best
Ay, are you thereabouts?
home indeed?
Convey'd himself as heir to the Lady Lingare,
farewell, bastard.
Worse than a promise-breaker.
Exit BRAKENBURY
For though they cannot greatly sting to hurt,
From when this stream through muddy passages
Suggestions are to other as to me;
To force him after: in whose company
That memory, the warder of the brain,
She is a gallant creature, and complete
They do not point on me.
Till they have fretted us a pair of graves
Enter an AEdile
forgotten what the inside of a church is made of, I
He is a good one, and his worthiness
It may not be.
'Tis so, they are afoot.
Have we not been; and therefore met your loves
Tranio, be so, because Lucentio loves:
What should I do?
She should this Angelo have married; was affianced
I thank you, princes, for my daughter's death:
Another moon: but, O, methinks, how slow
Of all my buried ancestors are packed:
Cousins, a word, I pray you.
being so proper.
As if the case were his.
What, will he not to bed?
Ha' not you seen, Camillo,--
Are landed on your coast, with a supply
No matter:--wear them, betray with them: whore still;
My mistress Cleopatra sent me to thee.
And meet i' the hall together.
And when fair Cressid comes into my thoughts,--
Who has a book of all that monarchs do,
Divide your happy England into four;
you tell me whether one Launcelot,
Marry, and will, my lord, with all my heart.
uncleanly, if courtiers were shepherds.
But, being mask'd, he was not sure of it;
Then let it lie for those that it concerns.
Ay, come, Semiramis, nay, barbarous Tamora,
She has spoke what she should not, I am sure of
Then let it do at once
When such a spacious mirror's set before him,
Speak with me, pity me, open the door.
And so farewell and thrive.
Master, will you win your love with a French brawl?
does well; but how does it well? it does well to
He's not confirm'd; we may deny him yet.
lady and mistress! By'r lady, your ladyship is
also, to smell out work for the other senses. I see
Well, no more.
With him is Gratiano gone along;
I'll come to him.
Doubtless he shrives this woman to her smock;
A widow, then?
And the queen too, and that presently.
The thin and wholesome blood: so did it mine;
That's two of his weapons: but, well.
As by your grace shall be propounded him.
Nor to their penn'd speech render we no grace,
As by his smoothed brows it doth appear:
As often as we eat. By the elements,
Lest I might be too rash:
Quiet untroubled soul, awake, awake!
But cruel are the times, when we are traitors
And hedged me by his wit, to yield myself
I mother, wife, and yet his child.
loss at sea or no?
It falls right.
Lord Angelo, having affairs to heaven,
If thou consider rightly of the matter,
meddle with no tradesman's matters, nor women's
desire you to eat it.
Enter ARIEL
The island's side.
For 'twould have anger'd any heart alive
the pudding in his belly, that reverend vice, that
the nation holds it no sin to tarre them to
Speak to her, Hamlet.
And follow to thine answer.
Teaching all that read to know
For certain words he spake against your grace
For Jesu Christ in glorious Christian field,
Now by my soul, I would it were this hour.
We are two lions litter'd in one day,
And joint'st with them will be thy slaughtermen.
Not swear it, now I am a gentleman? Let boors and
The motion's good indeed and be it so,
Shall I be plain? I wish the bastards dead;
But, like a thrifty goddess, she determines
And say which grain will grow and which will not,
The other four in wondrous motion.
Now, pray, sir, get you gone:
Plead your deserts in peace and humbleness.
This is well; he has made us his vlouting-stog. I
I do perceive here a divided duty:
God save you, sir! where have you been broiling?
I have, sir, as I was commanded from you,
Take this of me, Kate of my consolation;
My part of death, no one so true
I'll tell thee what, prince; a college of
Here, said they, is the terror of the French,
Think not that Henry shall be so deposed.
He has broke my head across and has given Sir Toby
the subject! and war and lechery confound all!
wept; for I must speak in passion, and I will do it
For by that name as oft as Lancaster
That you are like to Sir Vincentio.
A human shape.
Exit
To link with him that were not lawful chosen.
With furbish'd arms and new supplies of men
Ratcliff, thyself, or Catesby; where is he?
That drums him from his sport, and speaks as loud
Who's there?
It is, and wants but nomination.
Gratiano and Lorenzo. Fare ye well:
She never had so sweet a changeling;
Slain, sir, doubtless.
I'll show you how to observe a strange event.
To-night I'll mourn with Hero.
If it be mine,
Woo't drink up eisel? eat a crocodile?
support usurers; repeal daily any wholesome act
Julietta with child.
And wherefore are you gentle, strong and valiant?
wish him to her father.
To be so anger'd with another letter.
And draw within the compass of suspect
And therefore let me be thus bold with you
To join like likes and kiss like native things.
He talks to me that never had a son.
Myrmidons are no bottle-ale houses.
For Thurio, he intends, shall wed his daughter;
How Falstaff, varlet vile,
Fell by our servants, by those men we loved most;
Kate, I cannot look greenly nor gasp out my
Great pails of puddled mire to quench the hair:
own world, and you might quickly make it right.
This comes with seeking you:
Let's consult together against this greasy knight.
I understand the business, I hear it: to have an
Though well we may not pass upon his life
And, waving our red weapons o'er our heads,
knaves, his hinds, were called forth by their
O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
You to your land and love and great allies:
That now thou tirest on, how thy memory
O pity! Sir, where is the patience now,
SCENE II. The rebel camp.
If I owe you any thing, I will pay you in cudgels:
My lord should to the heavens be contrary,
You will compel me, then, to read the will?
A' was a merry man--took up the child:
Beauty too rich for use, for earth too dear!
Two other sons, who in the wars o' the time
Exeunt
But I will beard him.
Which teacheth thee that thou and I am one:
Enter QUEEN KATHARINE and her Women, as at work
And every thing is left at six and seven.
I thank both him and you, and pledge him freely.
To VIOLA
Pompey the Great; and Suffolk dies by pirates.
Hath pass'd in safety through the narrow seas,
I will bestow a breakfast to make you friends; and
What, ho!
When the sun sets, the air doth drizzle dew;
Of nothing: bring me to him. Hide fox, and all after.
My lord and you were then at Mantua:--
To vex thee.
thou ask me why, sufficeth, my reasons are both good
Commander of this hot malicious day:
From this earth-vexing smart.
And drown themselves in riot! Itches, blains,
This is not hunters' language: he that strikes
It was much like an argument that fell out last
Thou bitch-wolf's son, canst thou not hear?
Marry, is it; the very point of it; to Mistress Anne Page.
ANTIPHOLUS
And oftentimes, to win us to our harm,
Have I thought long to see this morning's face,
Forbear, Seleucus.
There is ten thousand--
To look upon my sometimes royal master's face.
I see some sparks of better hope, which elder years
And thou hadst been set i' the stocks for that
Take heed the queen come not within his sight;
There's scarce a bush.
Pardon me, madam:
Let him be apprehended.
I should have been beholding to your paper.
Each substance of a grief hath twenty shadows,
I never did repent for doing good,
So crimeful and so capital in nature,
Had he been slain, we should have heard the news;
Rejoiced deliverance more. Blest pray you be,
and one thing more, that you be never so hardy to
All dues be render'd to their owners: now,
The truth and innocence of this poor fellow,
wars or no?
This admiration, sir, is much o' the savour
In soft and delicate Lethe.
Hearken after their offence, my lord.
May be he tells you true.
if the bear be gone from the gentleman and how much
Left I the court, to see this quarrel tried.
in his dominion, could not be so cruel to me, as
Monday, my lord,
day! Alas, poor Harry of England! he longs not for
Consider, sir, the chance of war: the day
Amen, if you love her; for the lady is very well worthy.
pretty barne! A boy or a child, I wonder? A
And let my sovereign, virtuous Henry,
I rather wish you foes than hollow friends:
If all could so become it.
Think it an altar, and thy brother Troilus
Help me, my women! O, he is more mad
Chide me no more. I'll mountebank their loves,
Why, no; no more than reason.
left, till he cast bells, steeple, church, and
And with that odds he weighs King Richard down.
Lo, he is tilting straight! Peace! I have done.
Only deserve my love by loving him;
him in gold: I heard him tell it to one of his
That fellow is a fellow of much licence: let him be
'em, I think, surely.
Wilt thou accept of ransom? yea, or no.
When Jacob grazed his uncle Laban's sheep--
It cannot be but thou hast murder'd him;
In these to nature she's immediate heir,
I could afflict you farther.
We, Hermia, like two artificial gods,
[Reads]  'With a small compassed cape:'
O monstrous! O strange! we are haunted. Pray,
Has made thee swell thus.
horns upon his head, for a branch of victory. Have
Enter BAPTISTA, KATHARINA, BIANCA, GREMIO, and HORTENSIO. LUCENTIO and TRANIO stand by
For the gods are quick of ear, and I am sworn
Dare come about him.
Should know we were afoot.
Come, muster men: my counsel is my shield;
The nonpareil of beauty!
Upon the sobbing deer.
Sweet Proteus, no; now let us take our leave.
It is foul weather in us all, good sir,
I would we could do so, for her benefits are
the dearer by I know how much an ounce.
Know, I pray you,--
palm-tree. I was never so be-rhymed since
Warwick, these words have turn'd my hate to love;
And all the faith, the virtue of my heart,
Launcelot, my boy.
Therefore to's seemeth it a needful course,
Doth but usurp the sacred name of knight,
So that my lord your son were not my brother,--
So should we save a valiant gentleman
'Tis false.
My lord, here is my bill.
To him, Patroclus; tell him I humbly desire the
I hope you do not mean to cheat me so.
There is no day for me to look upon;
And this is Edward's wife, that monstrous witch,
For I myself will hunt this wolf to death.
[Aside to BOYET]  He may not by the yard.
Losing a mite, a mountain gain.
Name not religion, for thou lovest the flesh,
is a fool, and, as aforesaid, Patroclus is a fool.
Take up my mistress' gown to his master's use!
The ring of me to give the worthy doctor.
The hey-day in the blood is tame, it's humble,
O, no, my dream was lengthen'd after life;
All hail, my lords! which of this princely train
fly from God: war is his beadle, war is vengeance;
I could not stir him:
[Aside]  She needs not, when she knows it cowardice.
And lay my arms before the legs of this sweet lass of France,
This love feel I, that feel no love in this.
me, I could find in my heart to stay here still and
Enter Provost and POMPEY
France is a stable; we that dwell in't jades;
To the death, my lord.
Then she bears some breadth?
her without her tongue. O, that woman that cannot
That she is busy and she cannot come.
Re-enter PUCK and DEMETRIUS
That stand'st between her father's ground and mine!
seeming, Audrey:--as thus, sir. I did dislike the
When my good stars, that were my former guides,
Ere we will eat our meal in fear and sleep
With a sweet fellow to't?
What of him? he is
Was it more precious to me than 'tis now:
Give so much light that I may read by them.
Shoughs, water-rugs and demi-wolves, are clept
Wherefore I sent for you.
Giving the crown
walk. The time when. About the sixth hour; when
And cannot brook competitors in love?
the means I shall then have to prefer them; and the
enough in the shoulders, you care not who sees your
And I, the mistress of your charms,
Of Jaques Falconbridge, solemnized
And for his safety there I'll best devise.
Add thereto a tiger's chaudron,
And, as the long divorce of steel falls on me,
hath found him already.
And I would have it suddenly perform'd.
Infused itself in thee; for thy desires
Bedlam, have done.
put fire in your heart and brimstone in your liver.
Men, more divine, the masters of all these,
Do we all holy rites;
too cunning to be understood: what's your offence?
Back, foolish tears, back to your native spring;
And twangling Jack; with twenty such vile terms,
If to-morrow be a fair day, by eleven o'clock it will
it will feed my revenge. He hath disgraced me, and
And consequently thy rude hand to act
[Aside]  O gods! Who is't can say 'I am at
It was my instant death. By accident,
Throws him his purse
What says Lucentio to this shame of ours?
I know the man. What is the sum he owes?
For if such actions may have passage free,
That wouldst thou holily; wouldst not play false,
To cast thy wandering eyes on every stale,
When articles too nicely urged be stood on.
And send you many lovers!
See, they forsake me! Now the time is come
I will unbolt to you.
But, my good lord,--
giddy offences as he hath generally taxed their
Than stand uncover'd to the vulgar groom.
To see thy thy Anthony making his peace,
And hold no longer out.
Where noble fellows strike: war is no strife
He weeds the corn and still lets grow the weeding.
I trembling waked, and for a season after
Here's my lord.
Would make me sad.
Despite Duke Humphrey or the cardinal.
Some falls are means the happier to arise.
Why tell you me of moderation?
Nor scrape trencher, nor wash dish
agrees the devil and thee about thy soul, that thou
Here's our chief guest.
Meanwhile, sir, with the little skill I have,
The reverent care I bear unto my lord
Now, Titinius! Now some light. O, he lights too.
Invest me in my motley; give me leave
For I am proverb'd with a grandsire phrase;
with idleness, or manured with industry, why, the
My ears have not yet drunk a hundred words
Noble she is, but if she have forgot
And shortly must I fell it: tell my friends,
Enter CARDINAL WOLSEY and CROMWELL
Hear the shrill whistle which doth order give
Or, having sworn too hard a keeping oath,
That steals the colour from Bassanio's cheek:
Although apparent guilt be seen in them;
rather, gentle princess, because I love thee
So now, fair prince of Troy, I bid good night.
O, no, you shall not go.
Be executed in his father's sight.
It is the Count Melun.
Flourish. Enter ALBANY, GONERIL, REGAN, another Captain, and Soldiers
We please them not by land.
From strange to stranger. Say, how came you hither?
O England! model to thy inward greatness,
Say to the king the knowledge of the broil
As I intend to prosper and repent,
truly how thou likest her.
And leave your jealousies too, I pray you.
Which hoxes honesty behind, restraining
In such gross kind?
His wish'd ability, he had himself
Nay, come, I prithee; would thou'ldst be ruled by me!
Exeunt Servants with the basket
Exeunt MISTRESS QUICKLY and ROBIN
What was a month old at Cain's birth, that's not five
Wherefore should you do this?
I have: but what of him?
Exeunt
Brother, give me thy hand; and, gentle Warwick,
So think thou wilt no second husband wed;
Good Murder, stab him; he's a murderer.
bestraught: here's--
his true likeness.
His promises fly so beyond his state
They set the same; and there it doth remain,
To those that cry by night, convey thy deity
And he shall marry her: the nuptial finish'd,
The great doom's image! Malcolm! Banquo!
They say 'A crafty knave does need no broker;'
When I should bid good morrow to my bride,
Never to be infected with delight,
No less beg than a kingdom: if he please
you'll be laughed at.
back and finds her lover?
May a free face put on, derive a liberty
huge man, I should fear to drink at meals;
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  I fear her not, unless she
Of what you shall deliver. Yet, give me leave:
Should die for ever.
I prithee go and get me some repast;
Let not the world see fear and sad distrust
Nor I no strength to climb without thy help.
That I have said to some my standers by
Wherein--let no man hear me--I take pride,
Thence to be wrench'd with an unlineal hand,
notorious bawd.
Within this mile and half.
Farewell, good friar: I prithee, pray for me. The
Bugle bracelet, necklace amber,
Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
Enter TITUS, above
ACT IV
But boldly stand and front him to his face.
To honour Helen and to be her knight!
With all my heart; and much it joys me too,
For emulation hath a thousand sons
Do curse the gout, serpigo, and the rheum,
Thy back, I prithee.
Look out there, some of ye.
Hath she forgot already that brave prince,
So swift a pace hath thought that even now
them thyself or take away with thee the very
Trust to't, thou shalt not--on thy mother's womb,
In resolution to keep Helen still,
Exit HORATIO
The devil speed him! no man's pie is freed
Exit SIMPLE
Exeunt
toward you peradventure than is in your knowledge to dream of.
Exit
What crows have peck'd them here. He brags
Or do you almost think, although you see,
'Twixt the souls of friend and friend:
Fated to the purpose did Antonio open
Rich men sin, and I eat root.
Tears show their love, but want their remedies.
Either there is a civil strife in heaven,
This interchange of love, I here protest,
not that strange?
Their weapons like to lightning came and went;
Look where he comes.
Is room enough: this earth that bears thee dead
Even in the downfall of his mellow'd years,
Some lively touches of my daughter's favour.
Received and did deliver to our age
Lavinia, wert thou thus surprised, sweet girl,
nativity to this instant, and have nothing at his
That heaven had made her such a man: she thank'd me,
True; who bears hard
captain-general of the Grecian army, Agamemnon,
Cock crows
Enter STANLEY
Avaunt, thou damned door-keeper!
My temple stands in Ephesus: hie thee thither,
Shall I not have barely my principal?
Nay, this way, man: see where the huntsmen stand.
In state as wholesome as in state 'tis fit,
Your kingdom's terror and black Nemesis?
Good lady,
Belong you to the Lady Olivia, friends?
purchase in so removed a dwelling.
His execution sworn.
The childing autumn, angry winter, change
O Sisters Three,
No faith, no honesty in men; all perjured,
excelled many: but I have not seen the most
Then for her wealth's sake use her with more kindness:
Faith, I can cut a caper.
There's one grape yet; I am sure thy father drunk
had rather hear my dog bark at a crow than a man
scall, scurvy cogging companion, the host of the Garter.
Please your highness, posts
Made him joint-servant with me; gave him way
As you wish Christian peace to souls departed,
Before you answer Warwick. His demand
And woo your own destruction.
A fixed figure for the time of scorn
With all true duty. On toward Calais, ho!
protector,
If it were so, it was a grievous fault,
At your choice, sir.
Which simpleness and merit purchaseth.
The source of all erection. There's more gold:
He only, in a general honest thought
State holy or unhallow'd, what of that?
term and term and then they perceive not how Time moves.
Now to guard sure their master.
running banquet of two beadles that is to come.
d'Angleterre, Heritier de France; and thus in
What hands are here? ha! they pluck out mine eyes.
If it might please ye,--
My mistress is my mistress; this myself,
I have a tree, which grows here in my close,
will make it my quarrel.
Be bounteous at our meal.
spirit of wine, if thou hast no name to be known by,
In my voluptuousness: your wives, your daughters,
Dost thou hear, my honest friend?
Master Three-pile the mercer, for some four suits of
I would swim after.
Will put thy shirt on warm? will these moss'd trees,
But what should go by water. Prithee, tonight
That you know aught of me: this not to do,
Have the disease, and feel't not. How now, boy!
To-day the lords you talk of are beheaded.
A Sennet. Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER, BUCKINGHAM and CATESBY
Why, be so still; here's nobody will steal that from
My lord, your loving nephew now is come.
O'er borne i' the former wave: ten, chased by one,
you will desire; and seven hundred pounds of moneys,
In general, journey-bated and brought low:
Officers, what offence have these men done?
And to such wondrous doing brought his horse,
What, one good in ten? you corrupt the song, sirrah.
Were as seven vials of his sacred blood,
So tender of rebukes that words are strokes
'Shall Rome,  and c.' Thus must I piece it out:
Enter the Constable of France, the LORD RAMBURES, ORLEANS, DAUPHIN, with others
Which Somerset hath offer'd to my house:
To swim, to dive into the fire, to ride
To yourself: why, she wooes you by a figure.
I warrant thee.
The sons of Edward sleep in Abraham's bosom,
him.
What, comes the general to speak with me?
O, you go far.
Gratiano speaks an infinite deal of nothing, more
And he's composed of harshness. I must remove
And in my vantbrace put this wither'd brawn,
wide of his own respect.
thing that I have commanded thee: the third is,
To the perpetual wink for aye might put
And will they undertake to do me good?
And to that place the sharp Athenian law
By the mass, and 'tis like a camel, indeed.
How you do talk!
I put it in the pocket of my gown.
There is a litter ready; lay him in 't,
Open't, and read it.
It is required
Thou bastard of my grandfather!
O, speak no more, for I have heard too much.
ah, the immortal passado! the punto reverso! the
Do deeds to make heaven weep, all earth amazed;
You are princes and my guests.
him with any appearance of fear, lest he, by showing
can hardly make distinction of our hands.
I am thy king, and thou a false-heart traitor.
Exeunt LOVELL and DENNY
Are we come hither: since that thy sight,
Thou shouldst attempt it. Come now, keep thine oath;
Have words to bid you, and shall find it so
I, madam.
Almost to acknowledge hers.
But who comes here? Lorenzo and his infidel? What,
Enter HERMIA and DEMETRIUS
To the duke himself, to tax him with injustice?
held my duty speedily to acquaint you withal;
He did me kindness, sir, drew on my side;
Which lead directly to the door of truth,
On, Myrmidons, and cry you all amain,
Make thee beg pardon for thy passed speech,
that they come from my niece, and that she's in
Why, then you are in love.
Cannot outfly our apprehensions.
Upon her landing, Antony sent to her,
I have the patience to endure it now.
How rank soever rounded in with danger.
The warlike service he has done, consider; think
ostler bring my gelding out of the stable. Farewell,
Lead him off.
shovel-boards, that cost me two shilling and two
brother, and, as much as in him lies, mines my
My soul to heaven, my blood upon your heads!
And how long lay you there?
And yet you never swum the Hellespont.
Here to have death in peace is all he'll crave.
Exit HORATIO
And grant it.
And that a strange one too, which did awake me:
It follows not that she will love Sir Thurio.
Let me entreat to know at large the cause
Henry doth claim the crown from John of Gaunt,
I am sure on't, not a word.
My sight is very dull, whate'er it bodes.
To Ireland, I; our separated fortune
Or my dear majesty your queen here, think,
Must be thy subject, who in spite put stuff
Andronicus, would thou wert shipp'd to hell,
There to be crowned Richard's royal queen.
The time invites you; go; your servants tend.
Pray, draw near.
What, do you tremble? are you all afraid?
We thank thee, gentle Percy, for thy pains;
'Tis but a little way that I can bring you;
What's a drunken man like, fool?
To Caesar will I render
Launcelot, the Jew's man, and I am sure Margery your
Cold-hearted toward me?
Enter QUEEN MARGARET and PRINCE EDWARD
Hark!
In peril to incur your former malady,
Good my lord, bid him welcome: this is the
The payment of a hundred thousand crowns;
As he'ld burst heaven; threw him on my father;
Of him that brought them.
Humphrey of Buckingham, I accept thy greeting.
The fever whereof all our power is sick.
Receive my tears and seem to weep with me;
When you have conquer'd my yet maiden bed,
Such as my heart doth tremble to unfold.
For certain in our story, she
To learn of me, who stand i' the gaps to teach you,
My fingers itch. Wife, we scarce thought us blest
For the latter end of his name.
I know not, lady.
O, stay! I have no power to let her pass;
good counsel.
My noble father,
I rather would entreat thy company
In thy opinion which is worthiest love?
Takes AGAMEMNON aside
Re-enter Provost
Their ships are yare; yours, heavy: no disgrace
Throws down his gauntlet
As proofs of holy writ: this may do something.
rogue: for, though it be night, yet the moon
His honesty rewards him in itself;
surrender of his will but offend us.
O, sir, to such as boasting show their scars
After you first forswore it on the mart:
Your tale, sir, would cure deafness.
That brought thee to this world.
you call in question the continuance of his love:
wife: I spy entertainment in her; she discourses,
Sir, I love you more than words can wield the matter;
These fifteen years you have been in a dream;
John Duke of Bourbon, and Lord Bouciqualt:
Let it be so.
Though Cassio did some little wrong to him,
O, help, ho! light! a surgeon!
Was ever known so great and little loss
You cannot make gross sins look clear:
Improper for a slave.
lords, and gentlemen, with their coaches, I warrant
indeed, his fact, till now in the government of Lord
Go to the fellow, good Alexas; bid him
Marcus, we are but shrubs, no cedars we
Before King Richard in his royal lists?
In my behalf; my reputation stain'd
I cannot conjure, Trojan.
Or shall I send my daughter Kate to you?
Fits a dull fighter and a keen guest.
And I will stand the hazard of the die:
these please you?
Most dear'st! my collop! Can thy dam?--may't be?--
Hue and cry, villain, go! Assist me, knight. I am
I beseech you, sir, ask him what this man did to my wife.
indeed, only for that cause they have been most
The friends of France our shrouds and tacklings?
Fear not; he bears an honourable mind,
But that's past doubt, you have, or your eye-glass
We first put out to sea.
'Twill be naught:
His words were these: that Richard, Duke of York,
If thou wouldst not entomb thyself alive
Madam, it is, so you stand pleased withal.
Judas Maccabaeus clipt is plain Judas.
Crying on Hector. Ajax hath lost a friend
So you must take your husbands. Begin, murderer;
Look, here is writ 'kind Julia.' Unkind Julia!
And thou a kingdom; all of you allegiance:
With his inducement.
To stale with ordinary oaths my love
You're deceived, my lord: this is Monsieur
Something from Venice, sure. 'Tis Lodovico
As, to seek through the regions of the earth
May we do so?
come, thou art a mocker of my labour. Well said!
thou thimble,
Enter KING CLAUDIUS
plague upon such backing! give me them that will
My affections
Why do they run away? this is a knavery of them to
Wherefore to Dover, sir?
payment into ploughs, I warrant you.
This night in banqueting must all be spent.
me faith, say I. Well, it's all one.
Go presently and take this ring with thee,
Take these again; for to the noble mind
The barge she sat in, like a burnish'd throne,
But I persuaded them, if they loved Benedick,
For our enemies shall fall before us, inspired with
You advise me well.
My wife--but, I protest, without desert--
What's in his heart; and that is there which looks
Marry, will I; and you shall help to put him i' the ground.
when his disguise and he is parted, tell me what a
Then to your offices and let me rest.
It shall be to him then as our good wills,
ungenitured agent will unpeople the province with
Be patient, for you shall remain with us.
'tis; here's my mother's breath up and down. Now
Pluck a red rose from off this thorn with me.
Enter CORNWALL, REGAN, GONERIL, EDMUND, and Servants
Were not derived corruptly, and that clear honour
it upon my death, I gave him this wound in the
Is with a kind of colic pinch'd and vex'd
about to expound this dream. Methought I was--there
If with his tongue he cannot win a woman.
indifferent red; item, two grey eyes, with lids to
But if the gods themselves did see her then
For know, my lords, the states of Christendom,
To come ashore. Therefore, you men of Harfleur,
To make my lady laugh when she's disposed,
None that beheld him, but, like lesser lights,
are not mine.
Whipp'd and tormented and--God-den, good fellow.
I cannot tell; I fear 'tis choleric.
Her will, recoiling to her better judgment,
Should say 'Be good to Rome,' they charged him even
Be curses to yourselves? You should have said
Exeunt
Removed from thy sin-conceiving womb.
As then the messenger,--
Who brought that letter from the cardinal?
Exit CINNA
In terms of friendship with thine enemies.
discretion you ought to use me, look you: being as
And you three shall be strangled on the gallows.
I cheer'd them up with justice of our cause,
It is not meet the council hear a riot; there is no
Exit
A cousin-german to great Priam's seed;
Bearing it to the bloody slaughter-house,
I found the effect of love in idleness:
from a spider, without drawing their massy irons and
With every joint a wound, and that to-morrow!
I'll draw it as apparent to the crown,
As full of grief as age; wretched in both!
thee, nuncle; thou hast pared thy wit o' both sides,
This night, wherein the cub-drawn bear would couch,
The queen hath best success when you are absent.
'Tis all my business. At our last encounter,
Look you bring me in the names of some six or seven,
You thus employ'd, I will go root away
all.
Here is a purr of fortune's, sir, or of fortune's
Be sure of that,--two other husbands.
Do you hear, my lord? do you hear?
Even he, Biondello.
This is her question.
Take or lend. Ho! No answer? Then I'll enter.
A little happier than my wretched father:
That girdlest in those wolves, dive in the earth,
In expectation of them. O dear father,
By this hand, it will not kill a fly. But come, now
Bids them good morrow with a modest smile
Yes, one, and in this manner. He was to imagine me
And while it is so, none so dry or thirsty
fool for fancy, as you would have it appear he is.
To-day to marry with my brother's daughter?
And yet are steep'd in favours: so am I,
Apemantus, if it lay in thy power?
Look who comes yonder: she shall be our messenger
That I in rage might shoot them at your faces!
Enough, I am engaged; I will challenge him. I will
At Southam I did leave him with his forces,
Dead in his bed, my lord; Gloucester is dead.
which, my instruction shall serve to naturalize
Please you, therefore, draw nigh, and take your places.
Signior Hortensio, come you to part the fray?
Ere that correction. Troilus, I say! what, Troilus!
Again: if any Syracusian born
What's the matter?
Get goal for goal of youth. Behold this man;
Charged our main battle's front, and breaking in
Can any way speak in his just commend;
But thou didst understand me by my signs
But what shall I gain by young Arthur's fall?
[To KENT]  Prithee, tell him, so much the rent of
Before I would have yielded to this league.
might have a good woman born but one every blazing
In pious rage the two delinquents tear,
Re-enter CRESSIDA
Enter SEYTON
Enter DUKE
The gentry to this business. He creates
You taught me first to beg; and now methinks
I know my price, I am worth no worse a place:
Ay, marry, now unmuzzle your wisdom.
Early though't be, have on their riveted trim,
And bid her hasten all the house to bed,
Gifts that God gives.
See, here's to Jove, and this to Mercury;
My holy sir, none better knows than you
sheep-cote! all deaths are too few, the sharpest too easy.
Of my huge sorrows! Better I were distract:
That, doting on his own obsequious bondage,
That the strict fates had pleased you had brought her hither,
Marry, I'll teach you: think yourself a baby;
Two days ago. This jealousy
As self-neglecting.
To MARDIAN
But what o' that? Go, you that banish'd him;
Sir, your glove.
Either heaven with lightning strike the
punishment. And also, the watch heard them talk of
For we shall presently have need of you.
fain to hang you.
He is not lolling on a lewd day-bed,
She speaks:
away the fool; therefore, I say again, take her away.
Alarum. Excursions. Enter PISTOL, French Soldier, and Boy
And earthly power doth then show likest God's
Brutus, what shall be done? If this be known,
will either be food for it or bring it for food to
And I to Norfolk with my followers.
With bloodless stroke my heart doth gore:
Which to recure, we heartily solicit
Knows almost every grain of Plutus' gold,
I to myself am dearer than a friend,
Ay, sir.
Death, at whose name I oft have been afear'd,
That it may enter butcher Mowbray's breast!
I am glad to see your worships well.
Near this lack-love, this kill-courtesy.
accuseth him; he cannot swear, but it cheques him;
Now, good sir, what are you?
What, man! ne'er pull your hat upon your brows;
My gracious lord, return to Killingworth,
the grease of a mutton as wholesome as the sweat of
Tush, tush, man; never fleer and jest at me:
The devil it is that's thy master. Why dost thou
Vengeance! plague! death! confusion!
Nor I, nor any
So like you, 'tis the worse. Behold, my lords,
called the Reply Churlish. If again 'it was not
I'ld give thee leave to hang it. Get thee gone.
'Tis common:
Ay, but, Sir John, methinks they are exceeding poor
Tell us what Sinon hath bewitch'd our ears,
Yet never have you tasted our reward,
SCENE VI. Another room in the castle.
I told you what would come of this: beseech you,
his wounds and tell us his deeds, we are to put our
And they indeed had no cause to mistrust;
noble gentleman, Edmund?
Thus have we swept suspicion from our seat
I cannot sum up sum of half my wealth.
If thou proceed in this thy insolence.
Do you but mark how this becomes the house:
ale-houses, and bid those that are drunk get them to bed.
shake me up.
The good time of day to you, sir.
marry, and yet now, in despite of his heart, he eats
Enter three Watchmen, to guard KING EDWARD IV's tent
ha, ha! where? in Genoa?
For it is you that puts us to our shifts:
Who can come in and say that I mean her,
Many that are not mad
Her inclination, let him not leave out
sometimes and tell her that Paris is the properer
names as they pass by; but mark Troilus above the rest.
I saw the man to-day, if man he be.
When the king knows my truth.
The trusty Thisby, coming first by night,
'Tis a strange truth.
Which, slanderer, he imitation calls,
broke bread; but God is to be worshipped; all men
And all unlook'd for from your highness' mouth:
The rest do nothing--with this word 'Stand, stand,'
'Hold, friends! friends, part!' and, swifter than
And then I came away.
It stands in like request?
His eye doth level at, so thou ne'er return
So let us still continue peace and love.
Give me your hand: before this holy friar,
hands, and says to his wife 'Fie upon this quiet
Would let her out in saucers: sweet misprision!
out-herods Herod: pray you, avoid it.
Boys, apes, braggarts, Jacks, milksops!
My sequent protestation; be thou true,
So may he rest; his faults lie gently on him!
Though they are made and moulded of things past,
Now, master doctor, have you brought those drugs?
Is there no pity sitting in the clouds,
Could not out-peer these twain. Pardon me, gods!
What? what?
with my excrement, with my mustachio; but, sweet
For he is, sure, i' the island.
With so eternal and so fix'd a soul.
yet, for aught I see, they are as sick that surfeit
The ireful bastard Orleans, that drew blood
Frenchwoman.
Not a whit.
Good madam, pardon me!
Bear with my weakness; my, brain is troubled:
Exit
Good Master Froth, look upon his honour; 'tis for a
I' the name of me--
To scape his hands where I was like to die.
Would cast the gorge at, this embalms and spices
O, no; for the duke's daughter, her cousin, so loves
And their true sovereign, whom they must obey?
Friendly together: so through Lud's-town march:
The moody frontier of a servant brow.
O my lord,
Sweet Monsieur Parolles!
what they travail for, if it be a just true report
And wilt thou still be hammering treachery,
Ay, sir.
firm faith.
priests in the old church-window, sometime like the
under her horse; thou shouldst have heard in how
What rhubarb, cyme, or what purgative drug,
To sort some gentlemen well skill'd in music.
trick you served me when I took my leave of Madam
The moon is down; I have not heard the clock.
What, Curio?
must be content.
I' the way toward Dover, do it for ancient love;
Anthony Woodville, her brother there,
the head, and three times was his nose discharged
Those that slew thy virgin knight;
I have done all. Bid them all fly; begone.
that dwells with him, dwell with him or no?
He's very near the truth in this.
Enter DIOMEDES
This is the news: he fishes, drinks, and wastes
Whom every thing becomes, to chide, to laugh,
That bloodily did spawn upon his face;
Nor made to court an amorous looking-glass;
To come as humbly as they used to creep
of my power, and so stand aloof for more serious
Who, falling in the flaws of her own youth,
Honest plain words best pierce the ear of grief;
As for your spiteful false objections,
Here a' comes, methinks, and the queen with him.
[Aside to GREGORY]  Is the law of our side, if I say
forest. Send me a cool rut-time, Jove, or who can
And bitter shame hath spoil'd the sweet world's taste
philosopher, when he had a desire to eat a grape,
How many women would do such a message?
That can from Hector bring his honour off,
Is execution done on Cawdor? Are not
[Aside]  What's here?
Word of denial in thy labras here!
To scan this thing no further; leave it to time:
A peace above all earthly dignities,
These letters give, Iago, to the pilot;
She that herself will sliver and disbranch
O my follies! then Edgar was abused.
Brief, he must hence depart to Tyre:
Vain pomp and glory of this world, I hate ye:
flourishes, and a poor maid is undone.
vouching--and upon warrant of bloody
Thy beauty hath made me effeminate
Nay, her foot speaks; her wanton spirits look out
behind-door-work: they were warmer that got this
Exeunt Prologue, Thisbe, Lion, and Moonshine
I thank your honour. For my part, my lord,
It will be short: the interim is mine;
Come, my gracious lord,
Doth to our rose of youth rightly belong;
Which now's upon's; without the which this story
Look to your little mistress, on whose grace
To whom expressly I bring greeting too.
That he can hither come so soon,
Therefore the earth, fearing to be o'erflow'd,
Because my book preferr'd me to the king,
Our people quarrel with obedience,
Shall here inhabit, and this land be call'd
Let Diomedes bear him,
[Within]  Let me come in, and you shall know
unless it be to laugh at me.
the lady is disloyal.
O, no doubt, my good friends, but the gods
Whose salt imagination yet hath wrong'd
Before thee stands this fair Hesperides,
Behoves it us to labour for the realm.
Show!
That an eel is quick.
Helicanus, thou
Think you, my lord, this little prating York
The royal tree hath left us royal fruit,
Thou other gold-bound brow, is like the first.
with you; you shall have some part of your will: I
Never, my lord: but I have heard him oft
Who wither'd in her spring of year.
What Clarence but a quicksand of deceit?
That you protect this course, and put it on
Marcius!
I would be blind with weeping, sick with groans,
Most noble sir,
Despairing died.
Take away his weapon. Fellow, thank God, and the
Now sir, the sound that tells what hour it is
shall I be appointed hours; as though, belike, I
And so we will, provided that he win her.
between them.
Madam, the guests are come, supper served up, you
That he does weigh too light: my greatest grief.
There is no more to say?
Nothing so sure; and thereby all forsworn.
Exeunt
Enter ALBANY
To teach you gamut in a briefer sort,
Ay, Celia; we stay'd her for your sake,
That face of his the hungry cannibals
When down the hill he holds his fierce career?
Halts not particularly, but moves itself
Captain of our fairy band,
It gives a very echo to the seat
So was I bid report here to the state
Enter MACBETH, SEYTON, and Soldiers, with drum and colours
The name of Agincourt. Yet sit and see,
But O! the devil'--there the villain stopp'd
'The thrice three Muses mourning for the death
empty it in the muddy ditch close by the Thames side.
Out at your window betwixt twelve and one?
Excellently.
Stabb'd Julius Caesar; savage islanders
Which the rather
'And wished to see thee cross-gartered.'
And no great friend, I fear me, to the king.
I cannot tell what the dickens his name is my
And wake the emperor and his lovely bride
I am very glad to see you, signior
SCENE III. The same. ANTONIO's house.
place and person, generally allowed for your many
There are the players.
Parolles, the gallant militarist,--that was his own
Now powers from home and discontents at home
Let her alone, lady: as she is now, she will but
You are my father, for methinks in you
Thou art a banish'd man, and here art come
Say no more:
Thou'dst shiver'd like an egg: but thou dost breathe;
If this be he you oft have wish'd to hear from.
We'll not offend one stomach with our play.
Yet extreme gusts will blow out fire and all:
Stabs him again
Re-enter TAMORA, with Attendants; TITUS ANDRONICUS, and Lucius
To dote thus on such luggage? Let's alone
Fell slaughter on their souls. Heaven rest them now!
My Lord Ulysses, tell me, I beseech you,
Those provinces these arms of mine did conquer:
are they that hear their detractions and can put
Nay, but to live
When willingly I would have had her here!
Why Sir John, do you think, though we would have the
Shall find thee full of labours.
Mine honour for his truth: who being so heighten'd,
The cockerel.
And were our father and this son like him,
To whom I am so infinitely bound.
Ill-weaved ambition, how much art thou shrunk!
To BIANCA
Stay, Whitmore; for thy prisoner is a prince,
Sudden, malicious, smacking of every sin
Out, out, thou strumpet, Fortune! All you gods,
Play something like the murder of my father
O, learn'd indeed were that astronomer
So would not I	my love doth so approve him,
As they have often given. Here is Ulysses;
Will then cry out of Marcius 'O if he
You are sent for to the Capitol. 'Tis thought
To thee be worship! and thy saints for aye
As fear not but you shall,--show her this ring;
It is my birth-day:
breach; and we talk, and, be Chrish, do nothing:
That thou hast done me; therefore turn and draw.
To you, preferring you before her father,
So sacred as it is, I have done sin:
Give me your hand and say you will be mine.
Exeunt
Yet your mistrust cannot make me a traitor:
Though, haply, well for you.
We came hither to fight with you.
I have a voice and precedent of peace,
No; for I hold him to be unworthy of his place that
Exeunt
Whereat the great Lord of Northumberland,
Tut, she's a lamb, a dove, a fool to him!
Most bounteous sir,
You three, Biron, Dumain, and Longaville,
To hold my very course. Prepare for dinner.
SCENE V. Corioli. A street.
Enter PISTOL and Hostess
As we shall find their merits and our safety
As will disperse itself through all the veins
Why does the world report that Kate doth limp?
So hot a speed with such advice disposed,
Would be your country's pleader, your good tongue,
Exeunt King Edward and his company. March. Warwick and his company follow
Out upon it, old carrion! rebels it at these years?
SCENE III. Rome. A room in Marcius' house.
That borrow their behaviors from the great,
Still confirmation:
The abhorr'd ingredient to his eye, make known
quite from the answer of his degree.
I think it was to see my mother's wedding.
Your Caesar's father oft,
Poor thing, condemn'd to loss!
And hast a thing within thee called conscience,
If no inconstant toy, nor womanish fear,
DON
Go thou to Richard, and good angels guard thee!
I came to talk of. Tell me, daughter Juliet,
Wounds, friends, and what else dear that is consumed
I thought to have told thee of it, but I fear'd
Feeds beast as man: the nobleness of life
As living here and you no use of him.
Other slow arts entirely keep the brain;
To what may be digested in a play.
Than thine own worth prefer thee: go with me.
My dreams presage some joyful news at hand:
A sample to the youngest, to the more mature
But to look back in frown: stand, stand.'
My gracious sovereign?
undone till he be hanged, nor never welcome to a
SCENE V. The palace.
As ignorant as dirt! thou hast done a deed--
You, to remove that siege of grief from her,
That thou, Aumerle, didst send two of thy men
Like doth quit like, and MEASURE still FOR MEASURE.
Hear me, my masters, and my common friends,--
think is within me, begins to mutiny against this
For not being at court? Your reason.
If brothers.
But still sweet love is food for fortune's tooth.
Now, my co-mates and brothers in exile,
But certain issue strokes must arbitrate:
There must I be unloosed, although not there
To make the service greater than the god
Of secret on her person, that he could not
But, touch'd with human gentleness and love,
And sweetly felt it.
I'll not to Rome, I'll back with you; and pray you,
I'll not have it alter'd.
The praised of the king; who, so ennobled,
For he is nothing but a mighty lord.
Sever themselves and madly sweep the sky,
mummers; set up the bloody flag against all
And when I start, the envious people laugh
I fear me, love, if that I had been dead,
No unchaste action, or dishonour'd step,
Thou flatter'st misery.
Cornets. Enter KING HENRY VIII, leaning on  CARDINAL WOLSEY's shoulder, the Nobles, and LOVELL;  CARDINAL WOLSEY places himself under KING HENRY VIII's feet on his right side
I thought upon Antonio when he told me;
Shuts SIMPLE in the closet
Your absence only.
wicked varlet, now, what's come upon thee: thou art
It waves me forth again: I'll follow it.
Suspicion always haunts the guilty mind;
Without our grace, our love, our benison.
What, will you have me, or your pearl again?
It was ourself thou didst abuse.
For she is changed, as she had never been.
And so do I; yet did she call me so:
Why then,
But is there any else longs to see this broken music
I have, my lord, at my lodging, the same suit he
Go, take him away, and hang him presently.
What, upon compulsion? 'Zounds, an I were at the
Nay, tell me if you speak in jest or no.
But metal, Marcus, steel to the very back,
Therefore 'tis certain he was not ambitious.
To thy further fear,
As you malign our senators for that
If!
Both tugging to be victors, breast to breast,
The air is delicate.
Well, let's away, and say how much is done.
Repair to the senate-house.
Exit
is fair, yet I am well; another is wise, yet I am
Dyed in the dying slaughter of their foes:
Who is it in the press that calls on me?
And therewithal the best; or let her beauty
So help me God, as I have watch'd the night,
I'll drown you in the malmsey-butt within.
He'll go along o'er the wide world with me;
We are lucky, boy; and to be so still requires
I' faith, I fear it has.
Tigers must prey, and Rome affords no prey
Would I could meet him, madam! I should show
And never noted in him any study,
I am one, sir, that comes to tell you your daughter
Now is that noble vessel full of grief,
That he his high authority abused,
More than in words?
Sister, farewell; I must to Coventry:
thorough them.
I'll cross it, though it blast me. Stay, illusion!
For he is superstitious grown of late,
Whom thus we stray to find, and the sea mocks
Jack, then am I no two-legged creature.
He is, Sir John: I fear we shall stay too long.
Had number'd thirteen years.
Ajax goes up and down the field, asking for himself.
Knows not which way to stand, to look, to speak,
And set the triple crown upon his head:
Most rude melancholy, valour gives thee place.
With ladies' faces and fierce dragons' spleens,
Here's no man.
See you these, husband? do not these fair yokes
To a morning's holy office: the gates of monarchs
What I have done my safety urged me to;
If he should scorn me so apparently.
To Milford-Haven.
How have you made division of yourself?
Of that I doubt, as all men's children may.
And so I love and honour thee and thine,
this Benedictus.
Would stand and make his eyes grow in my brow;
My tears gainsay; for every word I speak,
I had rather have this tongue cut from my mouth
Then, Pompey, nor now. What news abroad, friar?
I am your accessary; and so, farewell.
When Fortune in her shift and change of mood
How to choose right, but I am then forsworn;
to care for nothing, sir, I would it would make you invisible.
'Tis in my cloak-bag--doublet, hat, hose, all
Incline to it, or no?
He says, for Brutus' sake,
How ill-beseeming is it in thy sex
Did never traitor in the land commit.
We shall be joyful of thy company.
That were hard to compass;
The sad companion, dull-eyed melancholy,
In what part of her body stands Ireland?
I would into thy bosom pour my thoughts:
And how does your content
Exeunt KING LEAR and KENT
Is very snow-broth; one who never feels
Free me so far in your most generous thoughts,
Holy Franciscan friar! brother, ho!
And knows me, and knows me,
To what infectiously itself affects,
shoe him himself. I am much afeard my lady his
above. Now, my masters, for a true face and good
Sir Valentine her company and my court:
What I have said to you.
Dissolves to water and doth lose his form.
A short alarum within
I seek to heal it only by his wealth:
What I desire to give, and much less take
And, when we are put off, fall to their throats:
Nay, stare not, masters: it is true, indeed.
Arthur of Bretagne, yield thee to my hand;
Tokens and letters which she did re-send;
Ten thousand dollars to our general use.
I did impeticos thy gratillity; for Malvolio's nose
As good!
Good ground, be pitiful and hurt me not!
Enter Hostess
of Montagues, I pray, come and crush a cup of wine.
What friendship may I do thee?
Heat not a furnace for your foe so hot
Will be himself.
Enter the Ghost of HASTINGS
In Alexandria: here's the manner of 't:
Ay, or I'll cudgel him, and make him cry O!
Did give him that same royalty he wears;
Swear then by something that thou hast not wrong'd.
And he retires. Where should Othello go?
I saw him beat the surges under him,
And this is more, masters, than you can deny.
True! pow, wow.
What since thou sworest is sworn against thyself
But when they heard he was thine enemy,
All will be well.
If he improve them, may well stretch so far
Divinest patroness, and midwife gentle
My errand is to you, fair youth;
me feed with his hinds, bars me the place of a
With Rosaline, my ghostly father? no;
Or walk in thievish ways; or bid me lurk
Beholding him, plucks comfort from his looks:
activity in question. What, billing again? Here's
Nor with sour looks afflict his gentle heart.
As flies to wanton boys, are we to the gods.
And ready mounted are they to spit forth
Since, wedding it, there is such length in grief;
Ha! fie, these filthy vices! It were as good
And, for unfelt imagination,
Which did subdue the greatest part of Spain;
Sirrah, you were best take my coxcomb.
And bootless 'tis to tell you we will go:
To counterfeit oppression of such grief
And there the snake throws her enamell'd skin,
To speak with Coriolanus.
His noble jury and foul cause can witness.
By all the gods that Romans bow before,
Vow, Burgundy, by honour of thy house,
Thou, trumpet, there's my purse.
--said I well?--and thy name shall be Brook. It is
Pisanio might have kill'd thee at the heart,
bewitchment of some popular man and give it
Know, sir, that I am call'd Hortensio.
Than the soft myrtle: but man, proud man,
the earth?
Ergo I come with this apology.
Yet tell me not, for I have heard it all.
you hag, you; come down, I say!
Since I have here my father's gift in's will.
Our soldiers', like the night-owl's lazy flight,
Wilt thou, O God, fly from such gentle lambs,
O Agamemnon, let it not be so!
that you have suffered, I think to repay that money
By a commission from the consistory,
But where's the money?
This, in the name of God, I promise here:
O then, tread down my need, and faith mounts up;
For who love I so much? And now who knows
There, on the pendent boughs her coronet weeds
For I intend but only to surprise him.
I am your wife, if you will marry me;
Which is the ladder to all high designs,
That his attendant--so his case was like,
Repeal him with the welcome of his mother;
The seeming truth which cunning times put on
That Hector, by the fifth hour of the sun,
You should not have the eminence of him,
Fery well: what is it?
I greet your honours from Andronicus.
Thunder above and deeps below
If love be blind, love cannot hit the mark.
Enter CHARLES and JOAN LA PUCELLE
The mystery of your loneliness, and find
Gives but the greater feeling to the worse:
Let's take leave of him.
It could not slake mine ire, nor ease my heart.
Come, sing.
ANTIPHOLUS
Search every acre in the high-grown field,
Make peace with God, for you must die, my lord.
Be an arch-villain; believe it, royal prince:
Yet am I thankful: if my heart were great,
He that knows better how to tame a shrew,
At Ephesus, the temple see,
By no means what?
O, find him! give this ring to my true knight,
These lords, my noble fellows, if they please,
Veiling an Indian beauty; in a word,
Commend my best obedience to the queen:
Shall be my friend again and I'll be his:
And bear the sow-skin budget,
Keep law and form and due proportion,
And rise created princely Duke of York.
See the coast clear'd, and then we will depart.
Of stern commandment. But whate'er you are
Take him you on.
Traffic confound thee, if the gods will not!
knower, and Patroclus is a fool.
As thou hast shown it flinty by thy deeds,
Agamemnon,
And if thou be not then created York,
You cannot show me.
You logger-headed and unpolish'd grooms!
With all my wits, my pains and strong endeavours,
He comes to bad intent.
Enter MARK ANTONY and DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
Pluck'd four away.
He comes upon a wish. Fortune is merry,
Do I live dead that live to tell it now.
And, now I am remember'd, scorn'd at me:
Heirs of your kingdoms, my poor house to visit,
They draw on both sides
speak to him, I will open my lips in vain, or
What they are, yet I know not: but they shall be
Ne'er issued from his blood. Take my defiance!
This juggling witchcraft with revenue cherish,
Word of denial: froth and scum, thou liest!
forth such fruit.
Come, sit thee down upon this flowery bed,
To dew her orbs upon the green.
the hip upward, no doublet. Unless he have a fancy
Fear no more the heat o' the sun,
The circle of my glory.
Come, Jaquenetta, away!
Not bolds the king, with others, whom, I fear,
My fleet hath yielded to the foe; and yonder
No cock of mine; you crow too like a craven.
man.
The storm is up, and all is on the hazard.
Hail to your grace!
May take off some extremity, which to read
Aloud
thou art altogether given over; and wert indeed, but
Why did you laugh then, when I said 'man delights not me'?
As prouder livers do.
But ne'er till now his scandal of retire.
Unless I have mista'en his colours much,
which cannot choose but branch now. Since their
The fool hath planted in his memory
Scornful Lysander! true, he hath my love,
SCENE III. Wales: a mountainous country with a cave.
My Lord of Westminster, be it your charge
I'll tell thee, Suffolk, why I am unmeet:
And that which should accompany old age,
Be it so she; will not here before your grace
Ay, madam.
and the princes, our kindred, are going to see the
as ours are: yet, in reason, no man should possess
Well said, well said; the fire and cloths.
SCENE II. OLIVIA's house.
I have a wife, whom, I protest, I love:
Whom should he follow but his natural king?
The most replenished sweet work of nature,
And hale him up and down, all swearing, if
Dismask'd, their damask sweet commixture shown,
Because we thought ourself thy lawful king:
Exit
Her opulent throne with kingdoms; all the east,
Why, master mayor, why stand you in a doubt?
I promise you, the effects he writes of succeed
Before the people all,
I could not sleep.
He'll woo a thousand, 'point the day of marriage,
Your princely father and my loving lord!
Re-enter DON PEDRO
And from this swarm of fair advantages
He is return'd in his opinions; which
Attach thee as a traitorous innovator,
And not in fear of your nativity.
Till fields and blows and groans applaud our sport!
I beseech you, do.
Cats, that can judge as fitly of his worth
Why are you virtuous? why do people love you?
If he do not dote on her upon this, I will never
I am glad to see you, good Master Slender.
Now, out of this,--
And, by God's mother, I, being but a bachelor,
Assume a virtue, if you have it not.
Where death and danger dogs the heels of worth:
The foe is merciless, and will not pity;
He is dead, Caesar:
Each man to his stool, with that spur as he would to
cover of the salt hides the salt, and therefore it
Nor fearing me as if I were her father;
For matching more for wanton lust than honour,
And he the sun, for them to reverence;
say, if he would incline to the people, there was
It doth contain a king; King Richard lies
No, nor a man that fears you less than he,
That holy duty, out of dear respect,
why I do call thee so, for I will show thee no reason for't.'
that way: but nobody but has his fault; but let
Thus have you heard me sever'd from my bliss;
Demetrius, I will keep my word with thee.
Exeunt
They do discharge their shot of courtesy:
Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD IV, attended; QUEEN ELIZABETH, PEMBROKE, STAFFORD, HASTINGS, and others
Thy age confirm'd, proud, subdued, bloody,
For the wide world's revenue.
I' the city of kites and crows.
And nature, stronger than his just occasion,
Whose pitchy mantle over-veil'd the earth.
What's here? the portrait of a blinking idiot,
SCENE II. CAESAR's house.
Almost as well as I do know myself:
And quietness of the people, which before
O wall, full often hast thou heard my moans,
Provost, a word with you.
In all humility unto his highness:
But kill not all together.
Farewell, my coz.
Exeunt
And they have earn'd the waste. Poor Antony!
Re-enter Page, with TYRREL
Truly to speak, and with no addition,
How more unfortunate than all living women
But, look, amazement on thy mother sits:
By my soul, a swain! a most simple clown!
I heard a child cry underneath a wall.
'Twas Helicanus then.
Our vessel is of Tyre, in it the king;
Doubt not that, if money and the season can yield
Tush, my good lord, this superficial tale
Is perjured to the bosom? Proteus,
And, for the most, become much more the better
this from me, I count it one of my greatest
Prithee, peace.
to see the wrestling?
Or but allay, the fire of passion.
Grow this to what adverse issue it can, I will put
Exeunt
I go, and it is done; the bell invites me.
Does of the shepherds: for his best friends, if they
Or get some little knife between thy teeth,
Towards which advance the war.
And her attainture will be Humphrey's fall:
And, like a thief, to come to rob my grounds,
No? you say your husband.
Do not go forth to-day: call it my fear
Exceeds, in that, the lists of all advice
For, by the dreadful Pluto, if thou dost not,
That the old carlot once was master of.
That died in honour and Lavinia's cause.
point and choke a daw withal. You have no stomach,
When Bolingbroke rode on roan Barbary,
It is supposed, the fair creature died;
Enter Provost and a Servant
For a more blustrous birth had never babe:
And find the inheritance of this poor child,
You do not meet a man but frowns: our bloods
Till I shall see you in your soldier's dress,
From sincere motions, by intelligence,
but fare you well.
Was mine in Britain, for the ring is won.
Wait else at door, a fellow-counsellor,
Where is this Hector?
Madam, I was very late more near her than I think
Which better than the first, O dear heaven, bless!
They will, they will, God knows,
But partly led to diet my revenge,
Did steal behind him as he lay along
If I had such a tire, this face of mine
You were inspired to do those duties which
And smelt so? pah!
Is the king stirring, worthy thane?
Will but remember me what a deal of world
SCENE II. A room of state in the same.
Such short-lived wits do wither as they grow.
Truly, officer, because he hath some offences in him
my cousin Toby? Let some of my people have a special
That is a fault.
The morn is fair. Good morrow, general.
Which I do owe you.
Sovereign of Egypt, hail!
Good morrow, fair ones: pray you, if you know,
If never, yet that Time himself doth say
woman indeed, one that, in the authority of her
May these add to the number that may scald thee!
I beseech your honour, give me leave: a word, and
Half-blooded fellow, yes.
At some hours in the night spirits resort;--
And for an honest attribute cry out
Is your Englishman so expert in his drinking?
Neither.
Look how we can, or sad or merrily,
Sir, the maid loves you, and all shall be well. We
Knock him down there.
were, and I by him, at all adventures, so we were quit here.
I'll pay thy pleasure then.
He would have dropp'd his knife, and fell asleep
chiefly loved: 'twas Aeneas' tale to Dido; and
Under whose colours he had fought so long.
Remaining now in Gallia?
A Clifford! a Clifford! we'll follow the king and Clifford.
The first departing of the king for Ireland.
For what doth cherish weeds but gentle air?
Against yourself.
[To HELENA]  The best wishes that can be forged in
Taking thy part, hath rush'd aside the law,
I was about to tell thee:--when my heart,
for a placket. I have said my prayers and devil Envy
Till it was whetted on thy stone-hard heart,
Enjoy the honey-heavy dew of slumber:
Achilles will not to the field to-morrow.
persuading me to it.
Seen how his son's son should destroy his sons,
Why, I said nothing.
Nor more nor clipp'd, but so.
Your noble friends do lack you.
Enter ABHORSON
And bears his thoughts above his falcon's pitch.
O, fie, fie, fie!
well enough too? what barm can your bisson
Ay, with my sword. What! think'st thou that we fear them?
Upon a friend of mine, who, in hot blood,
another experiment of his suspicion: but I am glad
Lord Buckingham, methinks, you watch'd her well:
'Tis a noble Lepidus.
What do you think of me?
Had princes sit, like stars, about his throne,
Do their due functions. Have you ta'en of it?
Must murder wives much better than themselves
Your fathers taken by the silver beards,
By the rebound of yours, a grief that smites
Was fashion'd to much honour from his cradle.
will not, come when you are next prepared for.
What men have you lost, Fluellen?
Tedious it were to tell, and harsh to hear:
If this be not a dream I see and hear.
Go you to him from me.
To saucy doubts and fears. But Banquo's safe?
A green and gilded snake had wreathed itself,
Therefore, we banish you our territories:
From south to west on wing soaring aloft,
Steal forth thy father's house to-morrow night;
And though the edge hath something hit ourselves,
While he did bear my countenance in the town;
Incensed the seas and shores, yea, all the creatures,
These eyes are not the same I wore in Rome.
Unto the king be by, and then his state
And bid them blow towards England's blessed shore,
to Ajax: he will be the ninth Worthy. A conqueror,
and there was he borne, under a hedge, for his
That it is place which lessens and sets off;
His Julia gave it him at his departure.
Good my lord,
For then she never looks upon her lure.
Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
Like valour's minion carved out his passage
to Sir Toby.
'Tis said he holds you well, and will be led
In faith, too much;
If she do chide, 'tis not to have you gone;
For what obscured light the heavens did grant
To England, if you will.
My heart this covenant makes, my hand thus seals it.
LAVINIA kisses TITUS
Are all these things perceived in me?
Shall I have audience? he shall present Hercules in
[Aside]  Pray God defend me! A little thing would
To what purpose have you unfolded this to me?
How came the noble Timon to this change?
Never crave him; we are definitive.
Through Gloucestershire; by which account,
To see another thus. I know not what to say.
Be buckled with: the over-daring Talbot
What would you have me do? go to the wars, would
The tune of Imogen!
A man that ne'er saw in his life before.
An hour before I came, the duchess died.
he added to your having; gave you some ground.
In bootless prayer have they been held up,
And when you have done so, bring the keys to me.
As answering to the weight: would I might never
lovers: seldom but that pity begets you a good
gifts of nature.
If not to fight with foreign enemies,
Madam, though Venus govern your desires,
Thou dost confirm his happiness for ever.
But Brutus says he was ambitious;
Suits not in native colours with the truth;
on no water.
with him, at my importunity, to fill up your grace's
That fallen am I in dark uneven way,
Go softly on.
Which sways usurpingly these several titles,
Refusing her grand hests, she did confine thee,
As reek o' the rotten fens, whose loves I prize
That I have positively said 'Tis so,'
the poor third is up, till death enlarge his confine.
Exeunt TROILUS and DIOMEDES, fighting
And thy unkindness be like crooked age,
[Aside]  So would I, till you had measured how long
Who is this? my niece, that flies away so fast!
Thy hope ends here!
Judge me the world, if 'tis not gross in sense
And entertain a cheerful disposition.
And world's exile is death: then banished,
'Tis nothing but conceit, my gracious lady.
And ever, as it blazed, they threw on him
That for her love such quarrels may be broach'd
Not friended by by his wish, to your high person
Malevolent to you in all aspects;
What is your will?
love, as an old man loves money, with no stomach.
And what offence it is to flout his friends.
But as well? then you are mad indeed, if you be no
that ever I heard.
That lies like truth: 'Fear not, till Birnam wood
Breathless and bleeding on the ground. Art
My liefest liege to be mine enemy:
indeed and sung lamentably.
Hark!
Should make desire vomit emptiness,
More slavish did I ne'er than answering
Mother Jourdain, be you
Therefore, great lords, be, as your titles witness,
Enter a Messenger
If that thy valour stand on sympathy,
Fair glass of light, I loved you, and could still,
Good father, tell her that she and my aunt Percy
My crown I am; but still my griefs are mine:
That will with due decision make us know
SCENE II. A bedchamber in the Lord's house.
Let them not speak a word; the guilt is plain;
Exit SIR HUGH EVANS
Two may keep counsel when the third's away:
Thriftless ambition, that wilt ravin up
May't please your highness sit.
Indeed the top of admiration! worth
Go forward.
Be ruled; you shall not go.
Thou villain base,
Adieu, uncle.
But I would have the soil of her fair rape
Peace, peace! forbear:
makes a man a coward: a man cannot steal, but it
bed, give him promise of satisfaction. I will
Do Caesar what he can. Know, sir, that I
Re-enter GLOUCESTER and BUCKINGHAM
'Imprimis: She can fetch and carry.' Why, a horse
Exit
Henry is dead and never shall revive:
Shall's have a play of this? Thou scornful page,
Exit
Heaven keep your honour safe!
That I may see again.
For that it stands not in such warlike brace,
Now, trust me, were it not against our laws,
Exit FROTH
From out the fiery portal of the east,
[To JULIET]  If I profane with my unworthiest hand
And his affairs come to me on the wind.
For sundry weighty reasons.
To feed again, though full. You do remember
so to heart the banishment of that worthy
the flowers of Troy, I can tell you: but mark
badness in himself.
So that my errand, due unto my tongue,
Ourselves, our wives, and children, on our knees,
creep under his gaberdine; there is no other
And on the proof, there is no more but this,--
Be Duke of Lancaster; let him be king.
My father's love is enough to honour him: enough!
I know not, madam: 'tis a fair young man, and well attended.
Enter HELENA
The holding every man shall bear as loud
What, Grumio!
I think, this coming summer, the King of Sicilia
To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be flatter'd?
Prove it, Henry, and thou shalt be king.
Why, all the souls that were were forfeit once;
If this fond Love were not a blinded god?
But in this extant moment, faith and troth,
Ducdame, ducdame, ducdame:
Exeunt some Attendants
blows; and withal so doubtfully that I could scarce
Come, come, wrestle with thy affections.
And thirty dozen moons with borrow'd sheen
Fair ladies mask'd are roses in their bud;
One must prove greatest: while they weigh so even,
Send danger from the east unto the west,
Constrain'd to watch in darkness, rain and cold.
O, spare my guiltless wife and my poor children!
You shall not in your funeral speech blame us,
Happier is he that has no friend to feed
And in his simple show he harbours treason.
that suffers under probation A should follow but O does.
If the duke with the other dukes come not to
Let us go. Come;
With signs of war about his aged neck:
and being so hard to me that brought your mind, I
Thou never shouldst love woman like to me.
Follow'd his enemy king, and did him service
is sooner caught than the pestilence, and the taker
Good my mother, peace!
And well are worth the want that you have wanted.
Flaminius; you are very respectively welcome, sir.
The duke! Why, Warwick, when we parted,
Remains in use with you. Our Italy
Hath such force and blessed power.
Make sacred even his stirrup, and through him
I embrace it.
In them and in ourselves our safety lies.
Have you not spoken 'gainst the Duke of Cornwall?
Which in his death were perfect.
Enter TYRREL
For pale they look with fear, as witnessing
Make them best seen and known.
and I a sheep?
As waters to the sucking of a gulf.
In the habiliments of the goddess Isis
Face not me: thou hast braved many men; brave not
Good day, Camillo.
Undraws the curtains
Where senators shall mingle tears with smiles,
Or let the church, our mother, breathe her curse,
If thou wilt not, befall what may befall,
Then there were two cousins laid up; when the one
Of singular integrity and learning,
Buried his father; by whose death he's stepp'd
What, is the king encamped?
This is some token from a newer friend:
We are honour'd much by good Simonides.
Now beat them hence; why do you let them stay?
All hail, sweet madam, and fair time of day!
She bids me think how I have been forsworn
Foster'd, illumined, cherish'd, kept alive.
Our dearest Regan, wife to Cornwall? Speak.
Come, come, no more of this unprofitable chat.
Rust, sword? cool, blushes! and, Parolles, live
Then come, o' God's name; I fear no woman.
The very tyranny and rage of his.
Gave't you the king?
That Christendom shall ever speak his virtue.
Exit
of.
[Aside]                 Or this, or perish.
There is but one mind in all these men, and it is
A messenger from Henry, our dread liege,
Are come from visiting his majesty.
They shall stand for seed: they had gone down too,
Exit
And wander up and down to view the city.
be not too rough for some that know little but
out, there are members to make new. If there were
Contempt, farewell! and maiden pride, adieu!
Sennet. Exeunt CAESAR and all his Train, but CASCA
Exeunt
Than faults may shake our frames,--let me be bold;
you shall be a woodmonger, and buy nothing of me but
And when 'tis told, O, that my heart would burst!
What woman, then?
At Stony-Stratford will they be to-night:
Though you were born in Rome:' his bloody brow
Should yet be hungry! Common mother, thou,
Britons must take. For me, my ransom's death;
And, like a man to double business bound,
And fearless minds climb soonest unto crowns.
Environ'd me about, and howled in mine ears
ACT II
He sends you this most memorable line,
That on the touching of her lips I may
Lest your displeasure should enlarge itself
DON
If it be, sir, I pray you, eat none of it.
The will! the testament!
Nay, sometime hangs both thief and true man: what
So help me God, as I dissemble not!
And shall, or some of us will smart for it.
Till my attempt so much be glorified
Madam, we'll tell tales.
SCENE IV. The Forest of Arden.
I have a strange infirmity, which is nothing
But when the duke is slain, they'll quickly fly.
And will not temporize with my entreaties;
But small to greater matters must give way.
for all he be a Roman: and there be some of them
Keep a gamester from the dice, and a good student
And you, fair sister.
Crested the world: his voice was propertied
Men daily find it. Get thee away, and take
And I be pleased to give ten thousand ducats
Three months this youth hath tended upon me;
It is well.
Cinna, where haste you so?
like him as she is.
SCENE III. An ante-chamber in the palace.
Thus might he pass indeed: yet he revives.
confidence; and of other wooers.
If you suspect my husbandry or falsehood,
O gentlemen, the time of life is short!
I come not, friends, to steal away your hearts:
He kills the nurse
That Katharina and Petruchio should be married,
How, I pray you?
Sweet smoke of rhetoric!
heart to beat him,--
They say so most that most his humours know.
And now ingratitude makes it worse than stealth.
Whose father then, as men report
And by and by a cloud takes all away!
Thank your majesty.
mistress enforced; thy garments cut to pieces before
To be brief, the very truth is that the Jew, having
He loves the gallimaufry: Ford, perpend.
On the fair Cressid.
Good.
Thou art a scholar; speak to it, Horatio.
O single-soled jest, solely singular for the
the knowing me: it is a wise father that knows his
the gallows may do well to thee. To't again, come.
Exeunt
our guests? 'tis well they are whispering: clamour
Bring forth that sorceress condemn'd to burn.
Call in the sheriff.
What air's from home. Haply this life is best,
No, believe me.
Bernardo has my place.
The one part suffer'd, the other will I do.
I do not think but Desdemona's honest.
A blister on his sweet tongue, with my heart,
Let the birds fly, and, like the famous ape,
Mistress, what's your opinion of your sister?
And sent to warn them to his royal presence.
Wishing him my meat. Sure, he's a gallant gentleman.
other men's; then, to have seen much and to have
Too deep and dead, poor infants, in their grave.
score hogsheads. I have sounded the very
The bird is dead
Why, 'tis found so.
Under this plot; she dies for't. Eros, ho!
Without suspicion.
Unswear faith sworn, and on the marriage-bed
That knit your sinews to the strength of mine.
Welcome to Cyprus.
Please you to dispose yourselves.
Was as another nature, dumb; outwent her,
To that which thou shalt hear of me anon.
But love from love, toward school with heavy looks.
The sea-tost Pericles appears to speak.
And lofty proud encroaching tyranny,
Farewell.
of grossness. He's in yellow stockings.
There's a strong fellow, Menas.
Being forbid? There, take you that, sir knave.
ACT III
so that in the beastliest sense you are Pompey the
He labour'd in his country's wreck, I know not;
Why, courage then! what cannot be avoided
For we will shake him, or worse days endure.
And from their watery empire recollect
Hark, hark! I hear the minstrels play.
Doth couch his limbs, there golden sleep doth reign:
A priestly farewell to her: suddenly, woman.
A kinder value of the people than
A housewife that by selling her desires
Exit
flattered the people, who ne'er loved them; and there
But in a dream of friendship?
That nature, which contemns its origin,
DON
Good Mistress Accost, I desire better acquaintance.
I prithee, hear me speak.
Have I not hideous death within my view,
To IACHIMO
To give me hearing what I shall reply.
Thou art sworn as deeply to effect what we intend
Lord, what fools these mortals be!
Was never so emboss'd.
Willow, willow, willow,--
apparent shame?
Exit
So honour peereth in the meanest habit.
We thank you both: yet one but flatters us,
And gave this sentence then;
In the mean time, what hear you of these wars?
I smell the blood of a British man.
I will not marry yet; and, when I do, I swear,
So kind a father of the commonweal,
But till that time
The other rotted with delicious feed.
Stars, stars,
Give me thy hand;
Against whose fury and unmatched force
No sheep, sweet lamb, unless we feed on your lips.
And surely as I live, I am a maid.
Brave warriors, march amain towards Coventry.
As my thoughts aim not at. Cassio's my worthy friend--
To send for Lucius, thy thrice-valiant son,
Enter a Messenger
The flower-de-luce being one! O, these I lack,
Sirrah, your lord and master's married; there's news
Guiltier than him they try. What's open made to justice,
and kneel for grace and mercy at my feet;
With all advantages.
Did you hear of a stranger that's come to court to-night?
And now like Nilus, it disdaineth bounds.
Put forth their sons to seek preferment out:
I will be mild and gentle in my speech.
To join your hearts in love and amity.
Doth speak of you, his cheek looks pale and with
Alack, sir, you cannot see your way.
For her poor brother's pardon.
sooth, thou wast in very gracious fooling last
The venison first shall be the lord o' the feast;
I am the greatest, able to do least,
Were liken'd oft to kingly sepulchres;
The noble duke hath sworn his coming is
As meet to be an emperor's counsellor.
valour is crushed into folly, his folly sauced with
follow, follow, follow.
and to detract. If all the wine in my bottle will
More than in women commonly is seen,
I can no longer brook thy vanities.
That goldsmith there, were he not pack'd with her,
This Cloten was a fool, an empty purse;
Sign me a present pardon for my brother,
A heavy heart bears not a nimble tongue:
Why stands he so perplex'd?
Call by thy trumpet: he that dares approach,
I know this; and thus I challenge it.
And in that quarrel use it to the death.
Bardolph, a soldier, firm and sound of heart,
Dame Eleanor gives gold to bring the witch:
Which once,' quoth Forrest, 'almost changed my mind;
The justice and the truth o' the question carries
His greatness weigh'd, his will is not his own;
What, art thou lame?
Which often, since my here-remain in England,
Hop in his walks and gambol in his eyes;
one another by the look, like cockatrices.
I see a good amendment of life in thee; from praying
With keels of every kind: many hot inroads
What complexion is she of?
Either envy, therefore, or misprison
What is most right: mine honour was not yielded,
Do outrage and displeasure to himself?
As I weigh grief, which I would spare: for honour,
Brother, this is Sir John Montgomery,
I will resist such entertainment till
To say extremity was the trier of spirits;
For when the king once heard it, out of anger
To-night, say I.
My charms I'll break, their senses I'll restore,
Among the infinite doings of the world,
His fretted fortunes give him hope, and fear,
One, that she's not in heaven, whither God send her
There is a willow grows aslant a brook,
And son unto the king, who, heavens directing,
And cull their flower, Ajax shall cope the best.
Were lovers too! Ill, to example ill,
By your own true affections, and that your minds,
That kiss'd his hand away in courtesy;
Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
And through the instrument my pate made way;
But to my mind, though I am native here
Take but possession of her with a touch:
I'll hence forthwith unto the sanctuary,
Hence, and bestow your luggage where you found it.
And he does chide with you.
Show me a mistress that is passing fair,
Inclined to this intelligence, pronounce
No doubt, no doubt; and so shall Clarence too;
May it please you noble madam, to withdraw
And take in Toryne? You have heard on't, sweet?
More, sir, and worse. She did confess she had
A shorter time shall send me to you, lords:
That I will joy no more.
but for smelling out the odouriferous flowers of
chance to fall.
I sheathe again undeeded. There thou shouldst be;
My uncle is return'd:
That presses them and learns them first to bear,
livelihood from her cheek. No more of this, Helena;
Hark you. far off!
Your greatest want is, you want much of meat.
Pray you, content you.
All pomp and majesty I do forswear;
With goodly shape and by your own report
We have strict statutes and most biting laws.
I am bound to your niece, sir; I mean, she is the
For ancient quarrels, and quite lost their hearts.
Come hither purposely to poison me.--
By this sun that shines,
Go in, and weep not; all things shall be well.
The castle of Macduff I will surprise;
Why sigh'st thou without breaking?
How fares my gracious sir?
As is the osprey to the fish, who takes it
Invades us to the skin: so 'tis to thee;
That I have fondly flatter'd her withal.
Therefore, that I may conquer fortune's spite
And none but he, to marry with Nan Page.
Your precious self had then not cross'd the eyes
By the height, the lowness, or the mean, if dearth
In our black sentence and proscription.
Ariel and all his quality.
But just a pound of flesh: if thou cut'st more
So get the start of the majestic world
But sway'd and fashion'd by the hand of heaven.
I know she is an irksome brawling scold:
Thy death-bed is no lesser than thy land
if the truth of thy love to me were so righteously
To demonstrate the life of such a battle
Very nobly
Which hath been smooth as oil, soft as young down,
With winged heels, as English Mercuries.
So great a charge from thine own custody?
Believe me, I cannot.
I dare lay any money 'twill be nothing yet.
And still is friend to him and Margaret:
Hath not a tomb so evident as a chair
That they do know my son, come you more nearer
Enter Clown
The taints and blames I laid upon myself,
The dozen white louses do become an old coat well;
Knowing by Paulina that the oracle
It's the wind.
Exit
all the records of the realm: my mouth shall be
Till I have thank'd you: when dinner's done,
And thus it may be. Come, sir, will you aboard?
No.
I shall be saved by my husband; he hath made me a
Bless thee, bully doctor!
Aside
Captain Jamy is a marvellous falourous gentleman,
modesty enough, and likelihood to lead it: as
The like is on her arm.
My heart hath one poor string to stay it by,
Why, Warwick, who should do the duke to death?
With cheerful semblance and sweet majesty;
Be gladded in't by me: then follows, that
But mercy is above this sceptred sway;
He did ask favour.
Vouchsafe me a word; it does concern you near.
like Falstaff, but a Corinthian, a lad of mettle, a
But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,
Shall happily make thee there a joyful bride.
hereafter, I pray you, mock at 'em; that is all.
You would say so, master, if your garments were thin.
Enter BANQUO
of his leg, the manner of his gait, the expressure
Exeunt
gallant, illustrate, and learned gentleman, before
Trumpets sound. Enter MARK ANTONY and EROS; a Soldier meeting them
Prospero my lord shall know what I have done:
Is it excepted I should know no secrets
ANTIPHOLUS
conquering might:
And, be assured, you'll find a difference,
Take heed o' the foul fiend: obey thy parents;
will not be seen; or if she be, it's four to one
The Lord Bassanio live an upright life;
I think I shall command your welcome here,
Oui, dat de tongues of de mans is be full of
Unless he take the course that you have done,
After the Beadle hath hit him once, he leaps over the stool and runs away; and they follow and cry, 'A miracle!'
but blow them to their trial, the bubbles are out.
for up and down she doth resemble thee:
Patroclus, let us feast him to the height.
Could all my travels warrant me they live.
Alas, sir, be patient. What say you sir? I am
Who, ne'er so tame, so cherish'd and lock'd up,
Let your breath cool yourself, telling your haste.
Ay, my good lord: five talents is his debt,
In this day's council; but we'll take to-morrow.
And then the king will court thee for his dear;
Dead? or asleep? I see no blood, no wound.
things that are hollow: thy bones are hollow;
These eyes could never endure sweet beauty's wreck;
Till youth take leave and leave you to the crutch.
In our remove be thou at full ourself;
I will look further into't. But where's my fool? I
To the court! why, what place make you special,
Not yet, I thee beseech:
Titled goddess;
It was commanded so.
How merited to be so; since he came,
I humbly thank you:
In her days every man shall eat in safety,
the judgment-day.
A visor for a visor! what care I
have spoken truer than you purposed.
Exeunt
For thou hast made the happy earth thy hell,
That this great king may kindly say,
company last night at supper; a kind of auditor; one
The motley fool thus moral on the time,
death's-bed--Got deliver to a joyful resurrections!
Our woes into the air; our eyes do weep,
To what end, my lord?
Whose price hath launch'd above a thousand ships,
that old men have grey beards, that their faces are
If I had lost it,
Without the stamp of merit? Let none presume
I dare meet Surrey in a wilderness,
Anon, I wot not by what strong escape,
O, very well, my lord: the music ended,
HECTOR falls
But she knows what she does.
Exit
you are false knaves.
What time I threw the people's suffrages
Translate his malice towards you into love,
Then reason safely with you. Therefore, be it known,
I thank you all: drink, and pray for me, I pray
Give me thy hand. I had a thing to say,
Under the greenwood tree
I know, by that same eye, there's some good news.
That Timon's fortunes 'mong his friends can sink.
Exit
To say 'live, boy:' ne'er thank thy master; live:
And bring in cloudy night immediately.
But amongst honest women.
'Twere pity they should lose their father's lands.
But say, again; how many saw the child?
Hector, thou sleep'st;
Dear sir, to my endeavours give consent;
if you do stir abroad, go armed.
Hadst thou been kill'd when first thou didst presume,
That blood should sprinkle me to make me grow:
May in the sworn twelve have a thief or two
Go one, and call the Jew into the court.
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  Marry, when thou darest.
Unseparable, shall within this hour,
Exit
No, my lord, unless I might have another for
Have learn'd me how to brook this patiently.
Nay, but, Ophelia,--
She's far enough; and what he learns by this
My lord?
True, I talk of dreams,
[To HOLOFERNES]  Monsieur, are you not lettered?
To load a falling man.
Adonis painted by a running brook,
disturbing the lords within.
To withhold the vengeance that they had in store,
To fright you thus, methinks, I am too savage;
I' the sway of your own will. Is he array'd?
Gather the sequel by that went before.
Sometimes our brother's wife. This respite shook
Their bodies to the lust of English youth
May these same instruments, which you profane,
He hath no friends but who are friends for fear.
Most worthy gentleman, I and my friend
Are capable of this ambition,
And not have spoke on't! In me 'tis villany;
comprehend:
Buy lads, or else your lasses cry: Come buy.
news, then, in your paper?
Take thou some new infection to thy eye,
Let me not hold my tongue, let me not, Hubert;
Holds honour far more precious-dear than life.
I had rather chop this hand off at a blow,
of your office, to be no true man; and, for such
within me.
Earl Surrey was sent thither, and in haste too,
A Roman with a Roman's heart can suffer:
The night before there was no purpose in them
Is crept into the bosom of the sea;
The manner of it is, I was taken with the manner.
Lives he?
Dares look upon the heaven of her brow,
If she confess that she was half the wooer,
The honey-bags steal from the humble-bees,
Enter AUTOLYCUS and a Gentleman
Be of good cheer: mother, how fares your grace?
Upon his death, unto the gentleman
This quarry cries on havoc. O proud death,
As much as me my dukedom.
to-day at bowls I'll win to-night of him. Come, go.
Presented to the tears of soft remorse.
No, my good Lord; he hath forsook the court,
Dispatch, my lord; the duke would be at dinner:
better increasing your folly! Sir Toby will be
Ha, ha, ha!
For, as I hear, the king is fled to London,
Lucius, all hail, Rome's gracious governor!
So is mine eye enthralled to thy shape;
Well, sir, as you guess, as you guess?
Now, good sweet nurse,--O Lord, why look'st thou sad?
Of our solemnities.
friend and I confess me knit to thy deserving with
breed. If it shall please you to make me a
If this sweet lady lie not guiltless here
Exit
Occasions, noble Gloucester, of some poise,
be a jewel that I have purchased at an infinite
A messenger from CAESAR.
Why didst thou tell me that thou wert a king?
Well met here.
Her beauty and the value of her dower,
Grant I may ever love, and rather woo
'Tis a good hearing when children are toward.
Exeunt PAGE, FORD, and SIR HUGH EVANS
the poet makes a most excellent description of it:
But there is something glows upon my cheek,
All things are ready, if our minds be so.
O, sir, a courtesy
If so, gaze on, and grovel on thy face,
Yonder comes my master, your brother.
he be not well, that he comes not home.
It boots thee not to be compassionate:
Forbear awhile; we'll hear a little more.
Play judge and executioner all himself,
But when his fair course is not hindered,
In food, in sport and life-preserving rest
I have broke your hest to say so!
Then treasons make me wish myself a beggar,
easy it is to put 'years' to the word 'three,' and
Yet know, my lord, I was provoked by him;
He dives into the king's soul, and there scatters
Or as a little snow, tumbled about,
Stuck in my throat.
Whole as the marble, founded as the rock,
drop and liquor fishermen's boots with me; I warrant
Commanded me to follow, and attend
All to you. Lights, more lights!
The castle royally is mann'd, my lord,
but forth to wash him in the Hellespont and being
I mean to utter it, or both yourself and me
Worse and worse.
When they do homage to this simple peasant.
Here comes another troop to seek for you.
Did I put Henry from his native right?
For such as I am all true lovers are,
Never to speak of this that you have seen,
And in conclusion to oppose the bolt
foul the clearness of our deservings, when of
That in their kind they speak it: only sin
Your brother is a forfeit of the law,
Latin, Praeclarissimus filius noster Henricus, Rex
To him forthwith in holy wedlock bands.
Fools are not mad folks.
Or wherefore dost abuse it, if thou hast it?
on thought,
Among which terms he used his lavish tongue
Yet, as they are, here are they come to meet you.
It was two ere I left him, and now the clock
To wrong him with thy importunacy?
To bless your eye withal.
The case stands with her; do't as from thyself.
And you shall find his vanities forespent
Pray, sir, your pardon.
In bed he slept not for my urging it;
Follow his chariot, like the greatest spot
And in devotion spend my latter days,
To carry into Flanders the great seal.
True, true; we are four.
Here are the keys, there sits the duke asleep:
Tucket within
Good night to every one.
foot-land rakers, no long-staff sixpenny strikers,
hiss, you may cry 'Well done, Hercules! now thou
He was gotten in drink: is not the humour conceited?
acquainted him with the cause in controversy between
'Shall I bid him go, and spare not?'
soul being in heaven. Take away the fool, gentlemen.
There is a soul counts thee her creditor
Yours in the ranks of death.
An army of good words; and I do know
And in possession twenty thousand crowns.
Are  you mankind?
For those defects I have before rehearsed,
Because he is near kinsman unto Charles.
Well, Brutus, thou art noble; yet, I see,
Many and hearty thankings to you both.
To which is fixed, as an aim or butt,
In angel whiteness beat away those blushes;
Thou shalt have cause to fear before I leave thee.
Methinks in thee some blessed spirit doth speak
major; so that it follows, I am rough and
shoes in the grime of it.
Well said, my masters; and welcome all. To this
Exit
From the dread summit of this chalky bourn.
thy soldiership, will subscribe for thee. Farewell.
If any man doubt that, let him put me to my
And mine with hers, and thine, and Margaret's.
And never see day that the happy sees,
What say'st thou?
Upon the parting of your wives and you.
Your country's fat shall pay your pains the hire;
Speak, gentle niece, what stern ungentle hands
grows bald by nature.
Your soldiers use him as the grace 'fore meat,
Sweet Beatrice, wouldst thou come when I called thee?
No, nor thy tailor, rascal,
The king he is hunting the deer; I am coursing
Which whilst it was mine had annex'd unto't
Be't so:
Ay, sir, for three months.
worse at ease he is; and that he that wants money,
Can gripe the sacred handle of our sceptre,
Only thus much I give your grace to know:
'Now the king dunks to Hamlet.' Come, begin:
Away with him, away with him! he speaks Latin.
To bend the fatal instruments of war
This hurt you see, striving to apprehend him.
Thou must restore.
Never so much as in a thought unborn
What cannot be amended.
And, by the grace of God and this mine arm,
Will cost my crown, and like an empty eagle
Three days before: but this from rumour's tongue
Exeunt OTHELLO, DESDEMONA, and Attendants
Leave! an you take leave till to-morrow morning,--
Besides, I'll make a present recompense.
Sweet, sweet, sweet poison for the age's tooth:
Were he to stand for consul, never would he
Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us:
O, tell me, did you see Aaron the Moor?
Sir, you may thank yourself for this great loss,
Usurps the regal title and the seat
Yes, an't please you, sir.
Look that my staves be sound, and not too heavy.
France is a bawd to Fortune and King John,
He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman;
I do think so. Pray you, turn your eyes upon me.
Though I lost twenty lives.--Help! help, ho! help!
Not so, sir; under correction, sir; I hope it is not so.
you, and their daughters profit very greatly under
much to say 'God make me a light wench.' It is
I'll now taste of thy drug.
Yes, by Saint Anne, do I. A good matter, surely:
Look, here's a letter from him: the state hath
To bear the golden yoke of sovereignty,
The cause were not in being,--part o' the cause,
I pray, talk me of Cassio.
I'd not have given a doit. Hark, how they joy!
This only is the witchcraft I have used:
How many be there of them?
Caesar refused the crown that it had almost choked
To buy his favour, I extend this friendship:
Reports, the Volsces with two several powers
So, to our tent;
I think you all have drunk of Circe's cup.
leave it to his discretion, and let us listen to the moon.
His deeds with doing them, and is content
Thou hast no feeling of it, Moth: I will speak that l'envoy:
They presently amend.
RICHARD
[Within]   Anon, anon.
Enter CLEOPATRA and DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
The trumpets sound. Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE, appellant, in armour, with a Herald
From what a torment I did free thee?
O, sir, content you;
And all the household servants fled with him
Go show your slaves how choleric you are,
Is this the promised end
Then all too late I bring this fatal writ,
Have skipp'd from sixteen years of age to sixty,
HELENUS passes
The blot and enemy to our general name!
Thy father slew my father; therefore, die.
Was dukedom large enough: of temporal royalties
Mistress, upon my life, I tell you true;
Apollo, pardon
Out at the postern by the abbey-wall:
This dastard, at the battle of Patay,
Well, say there is no kingdom then for Richard;
Now, Warwick, wilt thou ope the city gates,
Alarum. Retreat. Enter OCTAVIUS, ANTONY, MESSALA, LUCILIUS, and the army
Why, then, to-morrow night; or Tuesday morn;
Ply Desdemona well, and you are sure on't.
night: though you are a fool and a knave, you shall
At least in my opinion.
Swearing that you withhold his levied host,
Why, then are you no maiden. Leonato,
And will, no doubt, shortly be rid of me.
Exeunt BERTRAM and PAROLLES
Yes, good faith, every dram of it; and I will not
And more, much more; the time will bring it out:
O, I do not like that paying back; 'tis a double labour.
valiant master would destroy thee! I do not lie.
But justly, as you have exceeded all promise,
Go muster men; but, hear you, leave behind
Great Caesar,--
Poor gentlewoman! my master wrongs her much.
I pray you then, in love and dear alliance,
If thou engrossest all the griefs are thine,
Young Arthur's death is common in their mouths:
Whiles it was ours. So will it fare with Claudio:
et en peu de temps.
It is the Prince of Wales that threatens thee;
And him to Pomfret; where, as all you know,
Meets with Lord Harry: and, I fear, Sir Michael,
Peace, lady! pause, or be more temperate:
Who died, and was Fidele. What think you?
The figo for thee, then!
But I am very sorry, good Horatio,
Must not continue friends.
My clerk hath some good comforts too for you.
Could I but catch it for them.
But by fair sequence and succession?
If I might die within this hour, I have lived
This goodly summer with your winter mix'd.
before her wedding-day: if you love her then,
Enter CLEON and DIONYZA
If sympathy of love unite our thoughts.
Old feeble carrions and such suffering souls
So be gone: you are sped.
I have three daughters; the eldest is eleven
It did me yeoman's service: wilt thou know
Most bitterly on you, as putter on
Either in hope or present, I'ld exchange
One aloof stand sentinel.
for in converting Jews to Christians, you raise the
And, to say truth, Verona brags of him
Or is the adder better than the eel,
Respecting this our marriage with the dowager,
Honey, you shall be well desired in Cyprus;
DIANA CAPILET.
I meant to rectify my conscience,--which
The thick sighs from him, whiles the jolly Briton--
Your ears unto your eyes I'll reconcile.
'Tis the same: high-steward.
He is afeard to come.
Alas, I am a woman, friendless, hopeless!
The archdeacon hath divided it
Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament;
And is it not well served in to a sweet goose?
SCENE II. A room in the castle.
I'll bring you thither, my lord, if you'll
And may diseases lick up their false bloods!
A witty mother! witless else her son.
There you shall find that Portia was the doctor,
Mayst thou inherit too! Welcome to Paris.
Did your brother tell you how I counterfeited to
Then God forgive the sin of all those souls
Take that, and He that doth the ravens feed,
She then was honest.
First, there is the Neapolitan prince.
Calls my lord?
upon the church-bench till two, and then all to bed.
With rocks unscalable and roaring waters,
Down with him, down with him!
upon a book, I shall have good fortune. Go to,
And ne'er have stol'n the breech from Lancaster.
You were conducted to a gentle bath
By false accuse doth level at my life:
Troth, I think your other rabato were better.
A recreant and most degenerate traitor
In winter's tedious nights sit by the fire
I have brought you a letter and a couple of pigeons here.
Nay, very pale.
Will I my master's tears to you deplore.
By our remembrances of days foregone,
That from her working all his visage wann'd,
The trumpet any more. Pray you, Emilia,
BISHOP
That you have but slumber'd here
Saying, 'Cousin Toby, my fortunes having cast me on
Now question me no more; we are espied;
to my fingers, and there is salmons in both. If you
For, like an ass whose back with ingots bows,
Come, bring me where they are.
That which upholdeth him that thee upholds,
A worthy fool! Motley's the only wear.
I am the most offending soul alive.
Be hung with Caesar's trophies. I'll about,
Pardon this fault, and by my soul I swear
unthought of and speak out of my injury.
people cry 'Troilus'? Helenus is a priest.
mustard was naught: now I'll stand to it, the
The great assay of art; but at his touch--
But like a pleasant slumber in thy lap?
Who was the model of thy father's life.
I do not say 'thwack our general;' but he was always
And well am like to do; for, I perceive,
Comprising all that may be sworn or said,
So full of frost, of storm and cloudiness?
As ours by murder, to make him a king!
Will fashion the event in better shape
How was it?
Sings
For why, the senseless brands will sympathize
Too late? why, no; I, that do speak a word.
And you may then revolve what tales I have told you
Call thither all the officers o' the town,
It is a nipping and an eager air.
Is very cunning in.
I cannot tell: long is it since I saw him,
Whose every touch, would force the feeler's soul
He's coming hither: now, i' the night, i' the haste,
Bruise me with scorn, confound me with a flout;
Of all our fortunes: but if we haply scape,
Yet this my comfort: when your words are done,
He never did fall off, my sovereign liege,
Beckoning with fiery truncheon my retire;
I know I am too mean to be your queen,
Anon do meet the senate.
end.
do, surely, bar the door upon your own liberty, if
To be such men as may besort your age,
But heaven keeps his part in eternal life.
Were hid against me, now to forgive me frankly.
To force a spotless virgin's chastity,
Nothing but peace and gentle visitation.
Sly, old Sly's son of Burtonheath, by birth a
'Tis better as it is.
Or if not so, then here I hit it right,
Antonio and old Shylock, both stand forth.
SCENE III. The field of battle.
the duke hath dined. Get your apparel together,
tell me who it is.
Is it your will? Speak, sir. Prepare my horses.
I here abjure, and, when I have required
But that our loves and comforts should increase,
remember him now; a bawd, a cutpurse.
Spirits of peace, where are ye? are ye all gone,
And the conclusion is, she shall be thine.
Unless you call it good to pity him,
Did he write this?
Exit DOCTOR CAIUS
any such sort, as they say, but in the way of
I spoke it, tender juvenal, as a congruent epitheton
gold a counterfeit: thou art essentially mad,
sit till you come.
instinct hadst thou for it?
By maidhood, honour, truth and every thing,
Tom's a-cold.
To these two princes, if you marry them.
Exit SALISBURY
How now! what means this, herald? know'st thou not
So they must,
Look, sir, I bleed.
hose in France, his bonnet in Germany and his
Canst thou dispense with heaven for such an oath?
Enter LAFEU and BERTRAM
has pray his Pible well, dat he is no come: by gar,
Exit PETER
To draw the brats of Clarence out of sight;
Why, here in Denmark: I have been sexton here, man
Flourish. Exeunt
A baseness to write fair and labour'd much
My fool usurps my body.
That they have done't?
Shall make me chide thee, if not hate thee. What!
Weigh them, it is as heavy; conjure with 'em,
One half of me is yours, the other half yours,
To lay so dangerous and dear a trust
Prove them, and I lie open to the law:
I will speak daggers to her, but use none;
For well I know he was unnatural.
Becomes it thee to taunt his valiant age
They are a sweet society of fair ones.
Renowned Pompey!
offence herein too, I durst attempt it against any
And, by device, let blockish Ajax draw
We saw him at the opening of his tent:
What would you have me be, an I be not a woman?
Abides in me; I say amen to all.
He shall know you better, sir, if I may live to
fairly last night.
Lay thy finger thus, and let thy soul be instructed.
Enfeoff'd himself to popularity;
A special virtue: for then she need not be washed
Poor bird! thou'ldst never fear the net nor lime,
Turn, slave, and fight.
Keep thou the napkin, and go boast of this:
Good my lord,
ask thee what's their offence; sixth and lastly, why
Yet my good will is great, though the gift small.
No, some of it is for my child's father. O, how
Thy lewd, pestiferous and dissentious pranks,
Of thee, which says thus, 'Do my Lord of Canterbury
So the gods preserve thee!
O, a good wish upon you! you will try in time, in
Where they most breed and haunt, I have observed,
And stay here in your court for three years' space.
Last, that the Lady Anne,
So are a number more.
Ten thousand worse than ever yet I did
mind. Give her no token but stones; for she's as
The abject people gazing on thy face,
I'll have it so. My steward!
To seek her on the mountains near to Milford;
Trumpet, blow loud,
O, here's Servilius; now we shall know some answer.
The perdition of th' athversary hath been very
Self-loving,--
And well deserving? yet I know her for
Whose top-branch overpeer'd Jove's spreading tree
with cheer.
A rare talent!
Then all too late comes counsel to be heard,
abide the smell of hot meat since. Why do your
Is as 'twere born so.
I have a thousand spirits in one breast,
And make her airy tongue more hoarse than mine,
They gave us our demands.' Thus we debase
broiled and eaten him too.
Nay, Gloucester, know that thou art come too soon,
defect,--'Ladies,'--or 'Fair-ladies--I would wish
O, she that hath a heart of that fine frame
keep it in. I heard you were saucy at my gates,
And pride of their contention did take horse,
Of godlike amity; which appears most strongly
To whom you swore a secret pilgrimage,
Far more, far more to you do I decline.
vouchsafe me.
The king is not himself, but basely led
When he, conjunct and flattering his displeasure,
For villany is not without such rheum;
'Gainst nature still!
As if we had them not. Spirits are not finely touch'd
All the occurrence of my fortune since
Welcome before the gates of Angiers, duke.
Alas, alas!
Go, go, provide.
A good old commander and a most kind gentleman: I
Truly, the tree yields bad fruit.
And harsh in sound to thine.
comfort. She calls you, coz: I'll leave you.
By water shall he die, and take his end.
As one incapable of her own distress,
Exeunt
time for all things.
Excuse it not, for I am peremptory.
Be pale: I beg but leave to air this jewel; see!
words him, I doubt not, a great deal from the matter.
And made them watchers of mine own heart's sorrow.
ROSENCRANTZ:
Not decked with diamonds and Indian stones,
Re-enter Gaoler, with EMILIA
Is eaten by the canker ere it blow,
Letters from him! why comes he not himself?
But I'll be master of it: wilt thou not,
And mountainous error be too highly heapt
His dagger drew, and died. For all the rest,
Hear me one word;
This but begins the woe, others must end.
Very well, sir; proceed.
If his chief good and market of his time
No:
So he would keep fair quarter with his bed!
But no trace of him.
I cannot tell vat is dat.
Thisby, the flowers of odious savours sweet,--
Lead, lead.
To flatter up these powers of mine with rest,
An elder than herself: so wears she to him,
I go; and if you plead as well for them
Still your own foes, deliver you as most
Exit
I would not--though 'tis my familiar sin
affection in, it runs out.
Wars have not wasted it, for warr'd he hath not,
Thou goest to Coventry, there to behold
be souls must be saved, and there be souls must not be saved.
And hang thee o'er my tomb when I am dead:
Not only good and wise, but most religious:
O, I have heard him speak of that same brother;
'Tis love I bear thy glories makes me speak.
Exeunt all but ALBANY and EDGAR
Talk with a man out at a window! A proper saying!
sack: and fear not, neighbour, you shall do well enough.
Advance your standards, draw your willing swords.
Romeo, come forth; come forth, thou fearful man:
Corruption wins not more than honesty.
Prithee, man, look cheerly. These old fellows
'Tis a wonder, by your leave, she will be tamed so.
Ah, that my fear were false! ah, that it were!
Good my lord,
Thank the heavens, lord, thou art of sweet composure;
His leather skin and horns to wear.
Through 'tis a saying, sir, not due to me.
Calpurnia!
My noble girls! Ah, women, women, look,
Yonder he is coming, this way, Sir Hugh.
Here, stand behind this bulk; straight will he come:
Hark, hark! one knocks: Portia, go in awhile;
To see our widower's second marriage-day.
thou wilt quarrel with a man that hath a hair more,
I cannot think but your age has forgot me;
I have lived
And every Greek of mettle, let him know,
I never saw you in my life till now.
You heedless joltheads and unmanner'd slaves!
He smiled and said 'The better for our purpose.'
What shall I say? Where's satisfaction?
Second a villain and a murderer?
Who is the suitor? who is the suitor?
Re-enter DON PEDRO
Whom for the theft I wedded, stole these children
Cry within: 'Help! help!'
Enter KING JOHN, ARTHUR, and HUBERT
He is not sick.
I loved her most, and thought to set my rest
Did hear a challenge urged more modestly,
If idle talk will once be necessary,
Ay, defiled land, my lord.
Doth not the object cheer your heart, my lord?
Bourn, bound of land, tilth, vineyard, none;
O Antony! O Antony!
Sir,
The strain of strutting chanticleer
Virtuous and holy; chosen from above,
All that are his so too. To do this deed,
The messengers from our sister and the king.
Brothers, help to convey her hence away,
ANTIPHOLUS
As thou'rt a man,
Prithee, nuncle, keep a schoolmaster that can teach
Fairness which strikes the eye--
And with this healthful hand, whose banish'd sense
To wake our peace, which in our country's cradle
And bears his blushing honours thick upon him;
And stick musk-roses in thy sleek smooth head,
O, they did urge it still unto the king!
To an ass, were nothing; he is both ass and ox: to
'As true as Troilus' shall crown up the verse,
Because that now it lies you on to speak
Put your dread pleasures more into command
No single soul
To creep in at mine eyes. Well, let it be.
Nay, rather persuade him to hold his hands.
Come from the duke: and, see, your wife is with him.
For shallow draught and bulk unprizable;
As Shafalus to Procrus, I to you.
afflicts us, the object of our misery, is as an
And hang a pearl in every cowslip's ear.
Enter KING EDWARD IV, GLOUCESTER, CLARENCE, and LADY GREY
which is in the manner of his nurse, or his dry
Look, how thy wounds do bleed at many vents!
see her beautiful.
Would all the world but he had quite forsworn!
Most dull, honest Dull! To our sport, away!
Here, there, and every where, he leaves and takes,
Do you know he promised me marriage?
Find out thy brother, wheresoe'er he is;
O fair Katharine, if you will love me soundly with
Sweet honey and sweet notes together fail.
Whilst others come to make him lose at home:
Let's meet him and receive him.
Tell me, sirrah, what's my name?
voutsafe me, look you, a few disputations with you,
As willingly do I the same resign
They fight
Marry, they say my uncle grew so fast
I know not, sir.
How now, Malvolio!
Imogen, Imogen!
you: of her I am to speak.
Nay, we will all of us be there to fetch him.
Than when she lived indeed; then shall he mourn,
One word more, honest neighbours. I pray you watch
So please you,--
doomsday. Go, get thee to Yaughan: fetch me a
And what hath mass or matter, by itself
With cloth of any colour.
Love my wife!
Methinks his lordship should be humbler;
ACT III
your digestions doo's not agree with it, I would
Unkindness blunts it more than marble hard:
The ditty does remember my drown'd father.
unmannerly.
I see the play so lies
To you a charge and trouble: to save both,
If honour may be shrouded in a hearse,
Your beauty: which did haunt me in my sleep
At your employment; at your service, sir;'
The meat is cold because you come not home;
Thy speech had alter'd it. Hold, here's gold for thee:
Beneath the fall I have.
Nor tell tales of thee to high-judging Jove:
How now, my sweet creature of bombast!
Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash
It is in vain that you would speak with Timon;
Not having the power to do the good it would,
Carry this mad knave to the gaol. Father Baptista,
This yellow slave
or purblind Argus, all eyes and no sight.
Nay, send in time.
Your heart is burst, you have lost half your soul;
Death hath not struck so fat a deer to-day,
Have been so brief with you, to shorten you,
My father Capulet will have it so;
Alas, what cry is that?
See thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue,
In faith, she's too curst.
Why dost thou seek me out?
And Edward, my poor son, at Tewksbury.
We shall be late else; which I would not be,
AJAX and HECTOR enter the lists
Unless a brother should a brother dare
Be nothing of our strife; if we contend,
Duchess of Burgundy.
The business she hath broached in the state
Within this half-hour, hath received his sight;
Be as a planetary plague, when Jove
Captain Macmorris, I think, look you, under your
A scullion!
For Oberon is passing fell and wrath,
Our point of second meeting. Do you find
nor crop the ears of them.
Why, all our ranks are broke.
One Julia, that his changing thoughts forget,
I'll die on him that says so but yourself.
This just and learned priest, Cardinal Campeius;
have greater reason to believe now than ever, I mean
More richer than my tongue.
Is there a murderer here?  No. Yes, I am:
Nothing so much as mincing poetry:
Women will all turn monsters.
And learn me how to lose a winning match,
Now, princely Buckingham, seal thou this league
Our interpreter does it well.
SCENE VI. Near Misenum.
Maids, matrons, nay, the secrets of the grave
Let's further think of this;
I think it best you married with the county.
Thus, sir:
go one way or other: howsoever, he shall pay for me
Call me their traitor! Thou injurious tribune!
As hard to leave as keep; whose top to climb
And all the unlawful issue that their lust
O murderous coxcomb! what should such a fool
There comes a fellow crying out for help:
As houses are defiled for want of use,
Make head against my estimation!
Of these exactions, yet the king our master--
Produce the prisoner.
They clepe us drunkards, and with swinish phrase
But when we know the grounds and authors of it,
With an unslipping  knot, take Antony
But let me to my fortune and the caskets.
Till supper-time alone: while then, God be with you!
there were not two or three and fifty upon poor old
To the people, beg their stinking breaths.
Wake and find nothing. But, alas, I swerve:
And Talbot perisheth by your default.
The Lord Northumberland, his son young Henry Percy,
Of ten times double gain of happiness.
Romeo that kill'd him, he is banished.
O misery on't!--the wise gods seel our eyes;
Where are you there? Sir John! nay, fear not, man,
will come a time. I never knew a woman so dote upon
This is the day appointed for the combat;
Here's to thy health.
To herald thee from the womb: even at the first
Sweet lady, entertain him for your servant.
As 'twere my daughter's eyes: and, to be plain.
Hal! a plague upon you both! Bardolph! Peto!
I will, my lord; I pray you, pardon me.
Exit
Things done well,
What my estate is!
a score of villains: if there sit twelve women at
That you shall stifle in your own report
Exit
Like a good child and a true gentleman.
And the free maids that weave their thread with bones
That I might sleep out this great gap of time
It mourns that painting and usurping hair
Say 'Who's a traitor? Gloucester he is none.'
You must needs dine with me: go not you hence
For, as the case now stands, it is a curse
Enter one with an Officer
The law hath yet another hold on you.
Stay: the king.
How now, brother! Where is my cousin, your son?
Bringing me here to kill me.
Who, stuck and spangled with your flatteries,
Say he is sick.
Together with all famous colleges
Bound sadly home for Naples,
Ay, sir; so his mother says, if I may believe her.
Rest, rest, perturbed spirit!
Commend me to my wife. I'll return consul;
There is one Mistress Ford, sir:--I pray, come a
call fair. She is drowned already, sir, with salt
Enter the Lords to RICHMOND, sitting in his tent
Enter a Lord
Exeunt Pirates with MARINA
Come, to the forge with it then; shape it: I would
This is as't should be. Let me see the county;
We have had pastimes here and pleasant game:
cause is, calling both the parties knaves. You are
Lest his infection, being of catching nature,
But yet I love my country, and am not
Are at my service, like enforced smiles;
Why, here's a girl! I think she knows not well,
My downright violence and storm of fortunes
But she perforce withholds the loved boy,
Enter ROMEO
Senseless! not so.
As thou my sometime daughter.
And pill by law. Maid, to thy master's bed;
To LODOVICO and GRATIANO
A city on whom plenty held full hand,
Swills your warm blood like wash, and makes his trough
aboard, tender your persons to his presence,
Of all that may concern thy love-affairs.
Abated captives to some nation
Jack, meet me to-morrow in the temple hall at two
With Tybalt's slander,--Tybalt, that an hour
To consummate this business happily.
Enter KING HENRY VI, GLOUCESTER, BISHOP OF  WINCHESTER, YORK, SUFFOLK, SOMERSET, WARWICK,  EXETER, VERNON	BASSET, and others. To them with his Soldiers, TALBOT
trust it will grow to a most prosperous perfection.
How youngly he began to serve his country,
How now! who has put in?
And dares him to set forward to the fight.
What is the matter?
'No man must know.' What follows? the numbers
And make them dread it, to the doers' thrift.
Forgetting, like a good man your late censure
Give me advantage of some brief discourse
One of Lord Timon's men.
embattled against me. What say you to't, Sir John?
Who's there, I say? How dare you thrust yourselves
Upon my knowledge, he is, and lousy.
How does your honour for this many a day?
With the health that Pompey gives him, else he is a
I humbly thank your royal majesty.
And that would set my teeth nothing on edge,
Some comfort, nurse.
Exeunt
Please it our general to pass strangely by him,
You must say 'paragon:' a paramour is, God bless us,
For what his eyes eat only.
It is most true; true, I have married her:
Away, for your relief! and we will live
Than thou hast to deny 't. Come, let us go:
For things are often spoke and seldom meant:
I would have broke mine eye-strings; crack'd them, but
Exit
And brought me garlands, Griffith, which I feel
God save King Harry, unking'd Richard says,
No, indeed, my lord.
I will withdraw: but this intrusion shall
Sit still, and hear the last of our sea-sorrow.
I charge thee on thy allegiance.
With honour and with fortune is return'd
Caesar was ne'er so much your enemy
Ay, boy, grow ye so brave?
How God and good men hate so foul a liar.
Mark Antony shall not love Caesar dead
That heaven finds means to kill your joys with love.
Then gave I her, so tutor'd by my art,
Thy penitent reform'd: but we have been
Not so, neither; but I am resolved on two points.
I have been begging sixteen years in court,
We have your wrong rebuke. Do not believe
Smells wooingly here: no jutty, frieze,
Bear with me, good boy, I am much forgetful.
Speak, Romans, speak; and if you say we shall,
They dropp'd, as by a thunder-stroke. What might,
And who is your deer?
All must be even in our government.
What now? how chance thou art return'd so soon?
Stabbing him
prince's subjects. You shall also make no noise in
SCENE III. Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
The time will come when thou shalt wish for me
For he that interrupts him shall not live.
know my business is but to the court.
To be adopted heir to Frederick.
Do me but right, and you must all confess
Can lay upon my sin: yet sinn'd I not
Ay, and a subtle; as he most learnedly delivered.
in the reeky painting, sometime like god Bel's
Belike that now she hath enfranchised them
Where be the thronging troops that follow'd thee?
Weep our sad bosoms empty.
All the expected good we're like to hear
Obidicut; Hobbididence, prince of dumbness; Mahu, of
Brooks no division: it will be thought
They burn in indignation. I repent:
Or shall we bite our tongues, and in dumb shows
cast accompt.
I could not miss my way: will poor folks lie,
So puts himself unto the shipman's toil,
Who seeks for better of thee, sauce his palate
This night to meet here, they could do no less
Here she comes, curst and sad:
For shame, put up.
Let me be Duke of Clarence, George of Gloucester;
King Pepin's title and Hugh Capet's claim,
You must needs have them with a codpiece, madam.
And heal the inveterate canker of one wound
Enter CHARLES, the BASTARD OF ORLEANS, ALENCON, JOAN LA PUCELLE, and forces
When he might spurn him with his foot away?
A falcon, towering in her pride of place,
[Aside]  So wise so young, they say, do never
It does abhor me now I speak the word;
Re-enter LUCIUS, with wine and taper
If we, with thrice such powers left at home,
And the rarest that e'er came there.
How thus we met, and these things finish.
To show Lord Timon that mean eyes have seen
Are you content to stay?
To take off so much grief from you as he
him, he is gagged. I protest, I take these wise men,
Bethink thee on her virtues that surmount,
[Aside to CELIA]  I will speak to him, like a saucy
art. Look you, who comes here?
honour, who hath made this match, and his friend's
Nor sense to ecstasy was ne'er so thrall'd
Give solely sovereign sway and masterdom.
[Aside]  Now will I fetch the king to find them here,
Succeed before the younger, I am king.
Whisper the spirits of thine enemies
But, like in sickness, did I loathe this food;
Cry 'No recovery.'
I am about to weep; but, thinking that
Should perish by the sword! And I myself,
Whose joy of her is overwhelm'd like mine,
He'll call you to so hot an answer of it,
Is it true too, think you?
So please your highness,
Well contented.
But lend and give where she is sure to lose;
But these cannot I command to any utterance of
for credit of the 'prentices.
No tongue! all eyes! be silent.
This will I do, and soon return again.
with the smoke out at the chimney.
All that I have to say, is, to tell you that the
To ransack Troy, within whose strong immures
Tut, sir, I could have told you more. In these times
'Tis one thing to be tempted, Escalus,
And bid that strumpet, your unhallow'd dam,
How? to send him word they'll meet him in the park
Who does infect her?
'Tide life, 'tide death, I come without delay.
Revenge, which makes the foul offender quake.
I will say so.
The Sixth Knight, PERICLES, passes over
Thou elvish-mark'd, abortive, rooting hog!
Not on a band, but on a stronger thing;
He sent to me, sir,--Here he comes.
Throwing the water in their faces
I promised your presence and the chain;
Who hath been still a giddy neighbour to us;
I blush to think upon this ignomy.
God pardon all oaths that are broke to me!
Defiance to the traitor, and so die?
Nor, gentle daughter, fear you not at all.
Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
And therefore I forbid my tears: but yet
Which even but now, demanding after you,
My quarrel and this English queen's are one.
Enter MARIA
Prove holy water on thee! Imogen,
How fares my noble lord?
As is the morn-dew on the myrtle-leaf
Why am I a fool?
So fairly bound? O that deceit should dwell
Strength match'd with strength, and power confronted power:
am: the violet smells to him as it doth to me: the
Thanks to you all, and leave us: fare you well.
possible, on such a sudden, you should fall into so
And I'll provide his executioner,
Whom late you have named for consul.
Well then, take a good heart and counterfeit to be a man.
We doubt it nothing.
Have given myself the cause.
Stamp, rave, and fret, that I may sing and dance.
And free my country from calamity:
To tell sad stories of my own mishaps.
What shall I swear by?
Being not deficient, blind, or lame of sense,
Why should I joy in any abortive birth?
To save this bastard's life,--for 'tis a bastard,
the lady of the house?
They are coming to the play; I must be idle:
I thought of her,
Her mother, ever strong against that match
How the rogue roar'd!
Yet, spaniel-like, the more she spurns my love,
Methinks my zeal to Valentine is cold,
Beseeming such a wife as your fair daughter:
marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough
Well, sirs, I am almost out at heels.
What valiant foemen, like to autumn's corn,
Bear that proportion to my flesh and blood
Retreat: excursions. JOAN LA PUCELLE, ALENCON, and CHARLES fly
should fall
But cannot make my heart consent to take
She giveth SATURNINUS a letter
Prove violence; in the which three great ones suffer,
Away, sir! you must go.
Torments him so, that he will sure run mad.
For Margaret my queen, and Clifford too,
Come hither, boy: if ever thou shalt love,
The grief hath crazed my wits. What a night's this!
reports; but the best is, he lives not in them.
For ere thou canst report I will be there,
For food and diet, to some enterprise
Therefore by law thou art condemned to die.
there to-morrow, there is a great coil to-night.
You'll serve another master. I look on you
I will bethink me. May I speak with Antonio?
Then will I think upon a recompense.
How dread an army hath enrounded him;
with obscured lights; which, at the very instant of
have had thee than thus to want thee: thou, having
That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead:
Go you before to Gloucester with these letters.
I thank you, sir.
To aspire unto the crown and reign as king.
If it be dark, how dost thou know 'tis he?
Beyond what can be valued, rich or rare;
Diseases in our bodies: I must perforce
This very day a Syracusian merchant
Into the vale of years,--yet that's not much--
If you be well pleased with this
Now I do wish it, love it, long for it,
I say, Amen, Gonzalo!
After my flight. Now go we in content
Nay, let me alone for swearing.
This from a dying man receive as certain:
Here, here! for heaven's sake, help me!
Give us some seats. Come, cousin Angelo;
I loved you dearly, would you believe my oaths,
Upon his party: he, mistrusting them,
Exit
Did in great Ilion thus translate him to me.
Would ruffle up your spirits and put a tongue
Make much of him, my lords, for this is he
This is the indictment of the good Lord Hastings;
How in our voiding lobby hast thou stood
Rub him about the temples.
Helen's heart good now, ha! Would I could see
As potent as a lord's. Will you go yet?
I had a monopoly out, they would have part on't:
Let it not gall your patience, good Iago,
Our father's tears despised, and basely cozen'd
Disturb him not; let him pass peaceably.
To make that only true we now intend,
Nothing, unless you render her again.
Heavens defend me from that Welsh fairy, lest he
The ship is here put in,
Be as ourself in Denmark. Madam, come;
Been loose, this day they had been lost. Such joy
thou say, thou serge, nay, thou buckram lord! now
those which have walked in their sleep who have died
Where is Launce?
Than that which hath no foil to set it off.
goes,--mark you that; but if the water come to him
before him.
Exeunt
giving up of Normandy unto Mounsieur Basimecu, the
Then, joyfully, my noble Lord of Bedford,
Where is my lord protector? I have sent for these
Of indigent faint souls past corporal toil.
May blame, but not control. Who's there? the traitor?
Signior Arme--Arme--commends you. There's villany
His body to that pleasant country's earth,
Make me, that nothing have, with nothing grieved,
they would whip me with their fine wits till I were
SCENE III. The palace.
Whose conscience with injustice is corrupted.
Who knows not that?
in 't. Will you walk out of the air, my lord?
Advanced above pale envy's threatening reach.
I have ever held my cap off to thy fortunes.
The nights are wholesome; then no planets strike,
King Henry's issue, Richmond, comforts thee.
Hence! home, you idle creatures get you home:
is't with you? What, man! defy the devil:
Re-enter PANTHINO
What, is the fellow mad?
More than I have said, loving countrymen,
that time; and some say knives have edges. It must
Why dost thou bend thine eyes upon the earth,
ANTIPHOLUS
Portia, what mean you? wherefore rise you now?
I'll be so bold to take what they have left.
unicorn, pride and wrath would confound thee and
Every true man's apparel fits your thief: if it be
In puny battle slay me.
Clifford of Cumberland, 'tis Warwick calls:
I speak no treason.
Therefore we'll knock.
Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets:
Saddle my horses; call my train together:
They say it is a copy out of mine. Come, captain,
So well as by reflection, I, your glass,
O, he's the very soul of bounty!
Unless another,
You pluck a thousand dangers on your head,
have the letters I have sent; and repair thou to me
To be a public spectacle to all:
It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf
As he shall like, to quit me: urge it thou:
him like a carbon ado.
Wherefore should you so?
O, fie, fie, fie!
By this light, he changes more and more: I think
Merrily, merrily shall I live now
Or else she could not have the wit to do this: the
into a notable contempt. If you will see it, follow
Longer than swiftest expedition
Of full three thousand ducats. What of that?
Of the grave wearers. O, the sacrifice!
Thou grumblest and railest every hour on Achilles,
Warwick may lose, that now hath won the day.
And thou, to be endeared to a king,
SCENE III. Venice. A public place.
Fetch hither all my boxes in my closet.
GHOST OF BANQUO vanishes
His father by as much as a performance
Exeunt
Lucentio, gentle sir.
But, sith I am enter'd in this cause so far,
Let's obey his humour a little further: come,
I was beset with shame and courtesy;
Speak on with favour; we are bent to hear.
O, my lord,
yours: provided I have your commendation for my more
Ay, when the special thing is well obtain'd,
And waste the time, which looks for other revels.
And youthful still! in your doublet and hose this
And, as we walk along, I dare be bold
As we would hear an oracle.
I am the sister of one Claudio,
If ever danger do environ thee,
Which of you trembles not that looks on me?
Know'st me not by my clothes?
O good Iago,
And spoil your nobler soul: I say, take heed;
Our own precedent passions do instruct us
A wise stout captain, and soon persuaded!
And cannot help the noble chevalier:
Shorten my days thou canst with sullen sorrow,
And that same sword-and-buckler Prince of Wales,
if we were villains by necessity; fools by
Exit BIGOT
That bites the first-born infants of the spring.
DON
That both our powers, with smiling
Name them, my lord, let's know them.
Nay, sure, I think she holds them prisoners still.
By Suffolk and the Cardinal Beaufort's means.
By a vain prophecy of Nicholas Hopkins.
Guardian!--why, Greek!
And put on sullen black incontinent:
shall be any further afflicted, we two will still be
That stays but till her owner comes aboard,
Ere I was risen from the place that show'd
What if my house be troubled with a rat
All pride is willing pride, and yours is so.
By your pardon, sir, I was then a young traveller;
Now, fellow,
What thou thinkest meet and is most mannerly.
To the Fool
I take my leave at once.
In his bosom! In what chapter of his bosom?
Though I am mad, I will not bite him: call.
Ay, if you dare do yourself a profit and a right.
If I break time, or flinch in property
Which the proud soul ne'er pays but to the proud.
Their fears of hostile strokes, their aches, losses,
I do perceive it hath offended you:
Strike, drum.
Marina thus the brothel 'scapes, and chances
Proud Pole, I will, and scorn both him and thee.
Committed! O thou public commoner!
Not so. Adieu.
Kissing her
Crowns him with flowers and makes him all her joy:
What noise is this? Not dead? not yet quite dead?
A woman moved is like a fountain troubled,
by reckoning, sir.
how it takes up the shore! but that's not the
This Cressida in Troy? Had she no lover there
All the water in Wye cannot wash your majesty's
Enter PAROLLES
Bohemia greets you from himself by me;
And my heart too.
It is fifteen years since I saw my country: though
And therefore to revenge it, shalt thou die;
And what remains will hardly stop the mouth
Who found this letter? Tamora, was it you?
Of vile confederates. Along with them
Than some, whose tailors are as dear as yours,
[Within]  Whoe'er he be, you may not be let in.
I had forgot: 'tis so concluded on.
To Stanley's regiment; bid him bring his power
If thou be'st death, I'll give thee England's treasure,
So all hail, Macbeth and Banquo!
And shall our quick blood, spirited with wine,
All men's faces are true, whatsome'er their hands are.
A sun and moon, which kept their course,
spoil of me.
Stand, stand, thou Greek; thou art a goodly mark:
My lord, he fears you mean no good to him.
Hard food for Midas, I will none of thee;
Hearing applause and universal shout,
made the night light with drinking.
necessary for a cut-purse; a good nose is requisite
He that rides at high speed and with his pistol
knavery! all the argument is a cuckold and a
Then I perceive that will be verified
Three times they breathed and three times did
And set them on Lud's-town.
I mean to prove this lady's courtesy.
By heaven, I had rather coin my heart,
For I am sure you can wish none from me:
Exeunt
That without covering, save yon field of stars,
And weigh'st thy words before thou givest them breath,
yet famine,
That, had the king in his last sickness fail'd,
'Tis gone.
Upon your oath of service to the pope,
harm, and the greatest of my pride is to see my ewes
I was anointed king at nine months old;
That my integrity and truth to you
If we do lose this battle, then is this
In argument of praise, or to the worth
For, now they are oppress'd with travel, they
But bid farewell, and go: when you sued staying,
bawdry, which is strange; with such delicate
SCENE V. The English camp near Bourdeaux.
Then thus:
For your advancement! Do you understand me?
Go pack with him, and give the mother gold,
Much more a knight, a captain and a leader.
The tenth of August last this dreadful lord,
Exit
to-night at my house; where I will desire thee to
It could not else be, I should prove so base,
May trumpet to the world: my heart's subdued
Stay, you imperfect speakers, tell me more:
Saying, I liked her ere I went to wars.
Sour-eyed disdain and discord shall bestrew
The cloak of night being pluck'd from off their backs,
Wast not the way?
She knows the heat of a luxurious bed;
You take my part from me, sir; I have the most cause
The other blank as nothing. Weigh him well,
To DON JOHN
Of threescore and two years; a silly time
Is free of speech, sings, plays and dances well;
But screw your courage to the sticking-place,
And never, whilst I live, deceive men so:
life, for then we are sure they are true.
I loved him as in honour he required,
By such despair, I should accuse myself.
Some to the common pulpits, and cry out
By spells and medicines bought of mountebanks;
I went to seek him: in the street I met him
gentleman of all temperance. But leave we him to
Pray, get you out.
The sun and moon ne'er look'd upon!
And will, to save the blood on either side,
That here and there his fury had committed.
Could deem his dignity?
With cadent tears fret channels in her cheeks;
Have comfort, lady.
O,--Desdemona,--
Love thyself last: cherish those hearts that hate thee;
And we will follow.
These women are shrewd tempters with their tongues.
As to o'er-walk a current roaring loud
But his evasion, wing'd thus swift with scorn,
We'll burn his body in the holy place,
But Thomas, my dear lord, my life, my Gloucester,
distemper he is in now: I am glad the fat knight is not here.
will awake it anon.
And all out of an empty coffer:
as it were, mean mischief and break a foul gap into
But one that scorn to live in this disguise,
My life is run his compass. Sirrah, what news?
Unless the Lady Bona quit his pain.
That my youth suffer'd. My story being done,
Have not you love enough to bear with me,
There thou prickest her with a thistle.
I will go darkly to work with her.
From my own windows torn my household coat,
And on her virgin honour will not break it.
Re-enter MENENIUS, with BRUTUS and SICINIUS
To God, my king and my succeeding issue,
Nor never write, regreet, nor reconcile
Banished Valentine.
Wilt thou needs be a beggar?
Of England's true-anointed lawful king.
adornment of my qualities. With that suit upon my
Mean you his majesty?
That from it all consideration slips!
The tiger will be mild whiles she doth mourn;
Is thy name Tyrrel?
Denied my house for his, me for his wife.
To fight with Glendower and his complices:
I crave their pardons:
And bid them bring the trumpets to the gate;
The worser that you give me the addition
I' the body of the weal; and now, arriving
I thank you for your pains: spend this for me.
Did I my soul and fortunes consecrate.
ACT I
Here, sir.
What, all in motion? Henceforth be no feast,
Ha, ha, ha!
That, when the greatest stroke of fortune falls,
and make a vassal of him.
Hath a great scene: the image of the jest
And with him pour we in our country's purge
Exit an Attendant
had now, for putting the hand in the pocket and
First, tell me, have you ever been at Pisa?
Hath overta'en mine act.
That smiles his cheek in years and knows the trick
Speak freely.
sewed up again; and that I'll prove upon thee,
As kill a king, and marry with his brother.
I know not what he shall. God send him well!
I think it be.
Why, how know you that I am in love?
That, when he plays at tables, chides the dice
Untimely storms make men expect a dearth.
A woman of quick sense.
On any plot of ground in Christendom.
death: do not satisfy your resolution with hopes
My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
O master, master, I have watch'd so long
Will follow mine, if once they see them spread;
I know him: a' was a botcher's 'prentice in Paris,
tell thee so before, because I would not fall out
the falcon her bells, so man hath his desires; and
SCENE III. A field near Windsor.
Whereto we see in all things nature tends--
Why, villain, art not thou the carrier?
You may go walk, and give me leave a while:
Fare thee well.
Thy heart-blood I will have for this day's work.
How it goes here. It fits us therefore ripely
Be silent; let's see further.
They whistle
Proportion'd as one's thought would wish a man;
Master Hume, that you be by her aloft, while we be
I'll choke myself: there's all I'll do for you.
That he, unknown to me, should be in debt.
Which is the greatest lady, the highest?
That all the eanlings which were streak'd and pied
Or lowly factor for another's gain;
Exit
They are worn, lord consul, so,
The noblest; and do now not basely die,
Sweetest nut hath sourest rind,
Kissing her
This ague fit of fear is over-blown;
'Tis a vile thing to die, my gracious lord,
Her valiant courage and undaunted spirit,
What Tranio did, myself enforced him to;
I' faith, lady, I think your blazon to be true;
Will you walk in, my lord?
instance? Tongue, I must put you into a
Stay; come not in.
I come to know your pleasure.
Being so father'd and so husbanded?
Untimely ripp'd.
God save you, brother.
So, prithee, go with me.
I thank you, sir: had I not known those customs,
Come, come, he must not.
Hath thus stood for his country: therefore,
thing that is fitting to be known, discover.
Mum.
That you might still have worn the petticoat,
Very foul.
cattle of this colour; would now like him, now loathe
So, with two seeming bodies, but one heart;
And I loved her that she did pity them.
The liberal and kind offer of the king.
We shall not find like opportunity.
And that same vengeance doth he hurl on thee,
Let Richard be restored to his blood;
And here from gracious England have I offer
His language in his tears.
does not greatly care.
Exit
will better the instruction.
And help the joy.
offendress against nature. Virginity breeds mites,
And by the doom of death end woes and all.
That she may make, unmake, do what she list,
Should rob my bed-mate of my company.
God's secret judgment: I did dream to-night
not open my lips so wide as a bristle may enter in
and keep place together than the Hundredth Psalm to
Give me any gage of thine, and I will wear it in my
Ten thousand soldiers with me I will take,
What noise? who calls on Hamlet?
A holy maid hither with me I bring,
That Suffolk doth not flatter, face, or feign.
I would your grace would constrain me to tell.
How now! Who's there?
By rule of knighthood, I disdain and spurn:
He call'd them untaught knaves, unmannerly,
Life and these lips have long been separated:
The sullen passage of thy weary steps
Your lord, I mean--laughs from's free lungs, cries 'O,
Does buy and sell his honour as he pleases,
His nephew's levies; which to him appear'd
And, with a feeble gripe, says 'Dear my lord,
Let me have war, say I; it exceeds peace as far as
My plenteous joys,
And not o' the court of Britain.
counsel and understand what advice shall thrust upon
me: but I requited him for his lie; and, I
And then all this thou seest is but a clod
Here comes my daughter, she can witness it.
that our last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
If you would know your wronger, look on me.
him.
How far brought you high Hereford on his way?
This liberty is all that I request,
continency; sparrows must not build in his
For his advantage that I dearly love.
Yet I am none: whose tongue soe'er speaks false,
father charged you in his will to give me good
A good persuasion: therefore, hear me, Hermia.
Have power to raise such love in mine,
Say I am dancing; if in mirth, report
I have been dear to him, lad, some two thousand
Nay, but regard him well.
At the lower end of the hall, hurl'd up their caps,
A dangerous law against gentility!
But he's deceived; we are in readiness.
His second marriage shall be publish'd, and
I cannot blame his conscience.
He knew his man.
Starr'd most unluckily, is from my breast,
Which I shall send you written, be assured,
Fly! not we.
If you went in pain, master, this 'knave' would go sore.
At last by notes of household harmony
Enter LENNOX and another Lord
are prevented.
Serves for the matter that is then born in't.
Full fathom five thy father lies;
Methinks the power that Edward hath in field
A bawd of eleven years' continuance, may it please
And say 'God quit you!' be familiar with
To execute the noble duke at Calais.
thou been this month?
nated, or called, Don Adriano de Armado.
He cries for you, and vows, if he can take you,
They play
on a brick wall have I climbed into this garden, to
Is a bold spirit in a loyal breast.
Harry, I do not only marvel where thou spendest thy
Will'd me to leave my base vocation
Sorrow would solace and mine age would ease.
To give this day a crown to mighty Caesar.
Thy nephews' souls bid thee despair and die!
Or I'll be buried in the king's highway,
This siren, that will charm Rome's Saturnine,
Where will the old duke live?
'Le chien est retourne a son propre vomissement, et
Tell him he hath made a match with such a wrangler
From weary wars against the barbarous Goths;
As motion and long-during action tires
Why I, that did love Caesar when I struck him,
Is not to-morrow, boy, the ides of March?
Enter GLOUCESTER, with a torch
Would he were fatter! But I fear him not:
horse; and she would have me as a beast: not that, I
A stage where every man must play a part,
Though written in our flesh, we shall remember
I will give thee for it a thousand pound: ask me
Stand close: this is the same Athenian.
Enter TIMON, ALCIBIADES, and Lords,  and c
Shall to the edge of all extremity
How churlishly I chid Lucetta hence,
The one his purple blood right well resembles;
Unto a dunghill which shall be thy grave,
decorum, and fortune him accordingly!
And, I think, if my breast had not been made of
That since have felt the vigour of his rage.
If we be not relieved within this hour,
There, There, Hortensio, will you any wife?
A thousand pieces.
Wast beaten from Modena, where thou slew'st
O, say thou for her, who hath done this deed?
And buy a rope's end: that will I bestow
By doing deeds of hospitality:
Say not so, Agrippa:
Unto the kingdom of perpetual night.
Whose enmity he flung aside, and breasted
Nor never seek prevention of thy foes.
and so shall Trinculo.
I would this music would come: I am advised to give
I do believe it, and I ask your pardon.
I must eat my dinner.
But what a point, my lord, your falcon made,
Though thou speak'st truth,
see thee pass thy punto, thy stock, thy reverse, thy
No, pray thee, let it serve for table-talk;
Who tells us life's but breath, to trust it error.
Aside
For me as for you?
With twenty popish tricks and ceremonies,
These numbers will I tear, and write in prose.
friends, drove him into this melancholy.
hide him. O, how have you deceived me! Look, here
Say one of your watches.
SCENE I. Troy. Priam's palace.
Montano and myself being in speech,
Virgins on each side; CERIMON and other Inhabitants
For raising this sea-storm?
When, spite of cormorant devouring Time,
Will serve our long inter'gatories. See,
I think he will carry this island home in his pocket
Ay; and that thou and the proudest of you all shall
Do it in notes.
may shine in at the casement.
Four or five women once that tended me?
And this was it I gave him, being abed.
Except they meant to bathe in reeking wounds,
Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension,
Unless Plantagenet, Duke of York, be king,
Stay, stay, here comes the fool with Apemantus:
So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear.
I am beholding to you: cheer your neighbours.
Nor conversant with ease and idleness,
Your sword is bright, sir; put it up again.
My Lord of Suffolk, Buckingham, and York,
Aside
I, sir, am Dromio; pray, let me stay.
And presently go with me to my chamber,
A grain, a dust, a gnat, a wandering hair,
In the same fashion as you gave in charge,
The news is true, my lord; he is descried;
Each putter-out of five for one will bring us
if a man will be beaten with brains, a' shall wear
Ay, traitor, Marcius!
It toucheth us, as France invades our land,
No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
Of Marcius?
His highness' pleasure is to talk with him.
Opens his vasty jaws; and on your head
for she hath privately twice or thrice a day, ever
Why? that you are my daughter?
'em good shipping! But who is here? mine old
you much mirth.
Neither, my lord.
To order peace between them; and omit
Some of these articles; and out they shall.
And all too soon, I fear, the king shall rue.
O lamentable day!
Hear me but speak, and bear me where you will.
Madam!
And you, good uncle, banish all offence:
Beware you lose it not: for us, if you please
Was carried towards Corinth, as we thought.
But that, it seems, he little purposeth,
But, hark, what noise?
The news of thy success; and when he reads
We'll have this song out anon by ourselves: my
That the lover, sick to death,
Ah, Humphrey, this dishonour in thine age
O'er sixteen years and leave the growth untried
As I am sick with working of my thoughts.
Because I would be sure to have all well,
were best meddle with buck-washing.
And fear'st to die? famine is in thy cheeks,
O that I were a god, to shoot forth thunder
And such a piece of service will you do,
not well done?
We will stay your leisure.
laughing to his grave, fifty-fold a cuckold! Good
love, remember: and there is pansies. that's for thoughts.
You never spoke what did become you less
And charges him my lord, with such a time
Octavius, lead your battle softly on,
Catesby, we come. Lords, will you go with us?
Or such ambiguous giving out, to note
Exeunt
Thanks, dear my lord.
Behind the arras hearing something stir,
She shall be prized; but that you say 'be't so,'
And laugh like parrots at a bag-piper,
A virtuous gentlewoman, mild and beautiful
measure. To the rest: yet my chief humour is for a
O deadly sin! O rude unthankfulness!
Such separation as may well be said
As many, worthy lady, to yourself:
If this should ever happen, thou wouldst be horn-mad.
Exit AEdile
DON
Nay, this was but his dream.
He is as disproportion'd in his manners
And waits upon the judgment: and what judgment
For though her father be the King of Naples,
I am sorry that such sorrow I procure:
He's honest, on mine honour. God's blest mother!
his servant; for they purpose not their death, when
Cousin of Hereford, as thy cause is right,
What an exchange had this been without boot! What
O, vassal! miscreant!
I heard him swear his affection.
speak with you, and be acquainted with you; and hath
None good, my lord, to please you with the hearing;
Misshapen in the conduct of them both,
Why should I play the Roman fool, and die
None can be call'd deform'd but the unkind:
Sooth, la, I'll help: thus it must be.
What need we any spur but our own cause,
Or never be so noble as a consul,
Who pass'd, methought, the melancholy flood,
That nature must compel us to lament
Your worship, sir; or else I mistook.
And knew no other kin.
Under their sweet shade, Aaron, let us sit,
Myself, a prince by fortune of my birth,
thankful: let me stay the growth of his beard, if
heart as I can bid the other four farewell, I should
Have sworn for three years' term to live with me
Marry, were they.
Peace, both, and hear me speak.
Touching our person seek we no revenge;
Will you swear
Present approach.
And may not young men die, as well as old?
Of all these bounds, even from this line to this,
Enter PETER
The stones of Rome to rise and mutiny.
I shall not break your bidding, good my lord.
I shall be with you presently, good master puppy.
Tut, tut,
out' says the third: 'Hang him up' says the duke.
It was the copy of our conference:
Shall be accomplish'd without contradiction:
The tribune and his nephews kneel for grace;
The man i' the moon's too slow--till new-born chins
This is a thing that Angelo knows not; for he this
As for words, whose greatness answers words,
Exit
So I may answer thee with one as old, that was a
Content.
Upon the maidenhead of our affairs.
Since maids, in modesty, say 'no' to that
I will come to your worship to-morrow morning.
I have not slept.
No, sir, 'tis in grain; Noah's flood could not do it.
And lay the summer's dust with showers of blood
I see you stand like greyhounds in the slips,
Yield at entreats; and then let me alone:
What think'st thou of the rich Mercatio?
though thy little finger be armed in a thimble.
At the prefixed hour of her waking,
To please his grandam, never trust me more.
Fairies, black, grey, green, and white,
Cursed be that heart that forced us to this shift!
The place which I have feasted, does it now,
Which shall be shortly, single I'll resolve you,
Art thou some god, some angel, or some devil,
I kneel and then implore her blessing. Lady,
Re-enter LUCETTA
examine the wars of Pompey the Great, you shall
Whose life's as tender to me as my soul!
Vouchsafed to think he had partners: you shall find there
Your honour and your goodness teach me to't,
Who, having been praised for bluntness, doth affect
What, are Ancient Pistol and you friends yet?
Sodden business! there's a stewed phrase indeed!
Our thunder from the south
self-love, which is the most inhibited sin in the
[Aside]  I see she's like to have neither cap nor gown.
Out of his charity, being then appointed
For them to play upon, entreats you pity him:
Why, then, depart in peace, and let the child wake
This cheers my heart, to see your forwardness.
I am slain by a fair cruel maid.
His message ere he come, that a swift blessing
The enemy comes on in gallant show;
To do my duty to my sovereign:
Thy spite on mortal flies:
Paid ere he promised; whereby his suit was granted
By the time I linger here
My shame will not be shifted with my sheet:
Benvolio, who began this bloody fray?
not: he there: that he: look you there.
Not sick, my lord, unless it be in mind;
You may look pale, but I should blush, I know,
And gave me up to tears.
still, ha?
Are number'd in the travel of one mile?
That seeming to be most which we indeed least are.
As this I would: ay, though thou didst produce
that I shall die, is true; but for thy love, by the
This bird you aim'd at, though you hit her not;
Soft; by and by. Let me the curtains draw.
Exit Messenger
Madam, I'll follow you unto the death.
So God help Warwick, as he loves the land,
But what comes from myself, it shall scarce boot me
The best news is, that we have safely found
Hath not been used to fear. Even now I tremble
Good morrow, brother Bedford. God Almighty!
We'll wait upon your grace till after supper,
Whither are you going?
O, God save ye!
Meet and agreeing with thine infancy;
And praise myself for charity.
How weary, stale, flat and unprofitable,
Or else you love not, for to be wise and love
ANTIPHOLUS
Yea, or so many, sith that both charge and danger
And how does good Master Fenton? Pray you, a word with you.
Let be, let be.
And, with that word, she struck me on the head,
that,--hissing hot,--think of that, Master Brook.
Then you shall be his surety. Give him this
My spirit from mine eyes! There is my dagger,
For shame, 'oman.
Nay, he must bear you company. The king
[Aside to ARIEL]  Bravely, my diligence. Thou shalt be free.
Gave any tragic instance of our harm:
May be put from her by society:
That I am faulty in Duke Humphrey's death.
The collars of the moonshine's watery beams,
While I make way from hence to save my life:
When with his solemn tongue he did discourse
What, shall I find you here?
Enter Servants with a basket
O, what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
And thus she is deliver'd.
do it for some piece of money, and go through with
'cum privilegio ad imprimendum solum:' to the
With Cassio's suit: therefore be merry, Cassio;
'This general applause and loving shout
Their graces serve them but as enemies?
An you re us and fa us, you note us.
And leave the burthen of it all on thee.
They say all lovers swear more performance than they
And if the boy have not a woman's gift
Enter RODERIGO
And fawn on rage with base humility,
Thither he darts it. Bosom up my counsel,
Between two dogs, which hath the deeper mouth;
from his book, and it is wonderful.
trempling of mind! I shall be glad if he have
A gentle cousin, were it light enough.
And in thy need such comfort come to thee
That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,
Go, wind, to wind, there turn and change together.
For loving where you do: but if yourself,
I'll send some packing that yet think not on it.
Will bring thy head with sorrow to the ground!
Go, hang yourselves all! you are idle shallow
Is quite forgot. He was a queen's son, boys;
Exit
To enforce these rights so forcibly withheld.
Again shall you be mother to a king,
That ever I was born to set it right!
Ambition should be made of sterner stuff:
Be muster'd; bid the captains look to't. Now, sir,
Long in his highness' favour, and do justice
This letter, madam, craves a speedy answer;
I have considered so much, Camillo, and with some
cinque pace faster and faster, till he sink into his grave.
Out of a great deal of old iron I chose forth.
We do it not alone, sir.
Enter Nurse
Troop home to churchyards: damned spirits all,
O Antony, beg not your death of us.
Were gracious in those princely eyes of thine,
Before God! and, in my mind, very wise.
I'll read you matter deep and dangerous,
But all his mind is bent to holiness,
That, he awaking when the other do,
As I would serve a rat.'
He's very knowing;
Be witness to me, O thou blessed moon,
But where is Kate? I stay too long from her:
I vow'd, base knight, when I did meet thee next,
But fly you must; uncurable discomfit
And you shall well be spared.
[Aside]  If his wit had been like him that broke it,
I had lived a blessed time; for, from this instant,
These, as I learn, and such like toys as these
Exeunt Bawd, Pandar, and BOULT
This but done,
Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
Thou shalt be whipp'd with wire, and stew'd in brine,
How is the man esteemed here in the city?
Who doth molest my contemplation?
And pardon us the interruption
The other yet may rise against their force.
And angels officed all: I will be gone,
O, whither shall we fly from this reproach?
And yet my letters-patents give me leave:
A sister driven into desperate terms,
Which ten times faster glide than the sun's beams,
Of those that lawless and incertain thought
Ha! I like not that.
Shall bring Emilia forth.
All this is true.
Contend against thy valour. Know thou first,
And forced to live in Scotland a forlorn;
Here's sport indeed! How heavy weighs my lord!
I think there are, sir; I heard them talked of.
There stands the castle, by yon tuft of trees,
For in the ingrafted love he bears to Caesar--
Had Henry got an empire by his marriage,
Enter ACHILLES and PATROCLUS, before their tent
My pity hath been balm to heal their wounds,
[Within]  Let me go in to see the generals;
By your leave, sir.
Why, your herb-woman; she that sets seeds and roots
By the woman's means?
To the dulling of my spirits: sit down, and rest.
picture; and what I saw, to my good use I
All turn'd to heresy? Away, away,
To make a rescue?
I do affect the very ground, which is base, where
Then whither he goes, thither let me go.
O God, have I overcome mine enemy in this presence?
Then let me go and hinder not my course
First if all obstacles were cut away,
Why sweat they under burthens? let their beds
He swore consent to your succession,
myself, fellow Curtis.
Thy dear love sworn but hollow perjury,
In himself he is;
Noble Sebastian,
I know vat I have to do. Adieu.
Master Fer! I'll fer him, and firk him, and ferret
Cousin, you apprehend passing shrewdly.
And after-dinner's breath.
I will conclude to hate her, nay, indeed,
BEDFORD dies, and is carried in by two in his chair
Stay'd me a prisoner in my chamber when
The hand could pluck her back that shoved her on.
Adieu, and take thy praise with thee to heaven!
Cannot conceive nor name thee!
To save this brother's life?
Coistrel that comes inquiring for his Tib;
I shall discharge to the life.
ANTIPHOLUS
Unfit to live or die: O gravel heart!
It shall be what o'clock I say it is.
And to you all, good health.
I gave you all--
Enter TULLUS AUFIDIUS, with Attendants
Most notedly, sir.
Here comes Kent.
From Lisbon, Barbary and India?
Enter a Messenger
Love-news, in faith.
To my sick soul, as sin's true nature is,
Ere ye come there, be sure to hear some news.
Norfolk, we must have knocks; ha! must we not?
And many Jasons come in quest of her.
Exit Servant
That I will shortly send thy soul to heaven,
Now, daughter Silvia, you are hard beset.
being a tall fellow, trust me not. Hark! the kings
May he not do it by fine and recovery?
My lord, this is one Lucio's information against me.
Your single bond; and, in a merry sport,
Too subtle-potent, tuned too sharp in sweetness,
With all the choicest music of the kingdom,
To our own lips. He's here in double trust;
And I have one thing, of a queasy question,
Importing Denmark's health and England's too,
What would she have?
Exeunt
Give me your pardon, sir: I've done you wrong;
To our most valiant brother. So much for him.
Proud of employment, willingly I go.
Speak your griefs softly: I do know you well.
Never did mockers waste more idle breath.
needs be hanged with your pardons about your necks?
We'll speak it, then.
Ah, never faith could hold, if not to beauty vow'd!
I mean the learned ones, in Christian kingdoms
But fare you well: perforce I must confess
Flourish. Enter the FRENCH KING, the DAUPHIN, the DUKES of BERRI and BRETAGNE, the Constable, and others
O, take this warm kiss on thy pale cold lips,
I will have more, or scold it out of him.
instigation, to prove him a knave and myself an
sir, will show whereuntil it doth amount: for mine
Alas, I know not; how gets the tide in?
Not a jot, not a jot.
I say, but mark his gesture. Marry, patience;
That which cries 'Thus thou must do, if thou have it;
That has this morning left thee, would have still
Yes;
That made him send Lord Hastings to the Tower,
The better that it pleases your good worship to ask.
Captain Alcibiades, your heart's in the field now.
And fair words to them.
The even mead, that erst brought sweetly forth
Or the baring of my beard; and to say it was in
I am woe for't, sir.
We may surprise and take him at our pleasure?
Marry. sir, by many a wind-instrument that I know.
For this time will I take my leave, my lord.
to slander the Lady Hero, how you were brought into
SCENE II. Venice. A street.
So it be new, there's no respect how vile--
Teach not thy lips such scorn, for they were made
And other of your highness' privy-council;
What kind of man he is.
Thither we bend again.
Thy sun sets weeping in the lowly west,
Alack that Leonine was so slack, so slow!
Infuse his breast with magnanimity
SCENE I. Verona. An open place.
As in the prizer: 'tis mad idolatry
wars is not kept: if you would take the pains but to
Hear what I say, and then go home and lose me.
Cry: 'St. George,' 'A Talbot.'
But what to me, my love? but what to me? A wife?
To woo so fair a dame to be his wife,
Enter DUKE OF YORK
Indeed, madam, I seem so.
here in hideous darkness.
And your great-uncle's, Edward the Black Prince,
In election for the Roman empery,
Baccare! you are marvellous forward.
The dateless limit of thy dear exile;
Shall I attend your grace?
I' the filthy-mantled pool beyond your cell,
Well, so it stands; and thus, I fear, at last
Till he be dieted to my request,
She is too fair, too wise, wisely too fair,
Look not pale, Bianca; thy father will not frown.
Enter CAPULET and Nurse
Madam, how like you this play?
For the rain,  and c.
What is his name.
Into the service of the time and was
The wrong I did myself; which was so much,
To say you have seen a better.
My fortunes to your service, which are here
You do him injury to scorn his corse.
No I'll be sworn; unless you call three fingers on
And tell 's a tale.
Nothing may give us aid.
That, if this rule were true, he should be gracious.
Hast thou met with him? Send thy man away.
thou never leave calling 'Francis,' that his tale
So strive upon your pulse. What, pale again?
Revolted Mortimer!
And fits the mounting spirit like myself,
That bear'st a cheek for blows, a head for wrongs;
Me they shall feel while I am able to stand: and
When majesty stoops to folly. Reverse thy doom;
Enter Watch, with the Page of PARIS
He hears naught privately that comes from Troy.
Such as I am: though for myself alone
Enter ANTONIO
Besides these, other bars he lays before me,
Exeunt MISTRESS PAGE and ANNE PAGE
How is the king employ'd?
This was my wish: 'Be thou,' quoth I, ' accursed,
'Tis a spirit: sometime't appears like a lord;
By flatterers; and what they will inform,
Say you so? then I shall pose you quickly.
might take two thieves kissing.
desolate. I see them lay their heads together to
An 'twere my case, I should go hang myself.
That does appear as he were flay'd? O gods
I had a Harry, till a Richard kill'd him:
fry of fornication is at door! On my Christian
Myself in my incertain grounds to fail
The motto thus, 'Sic spectanda fides.'
borrowed, three of four times; lived well and in
ANTIPHOLUS
Be clamorous and leap all civil bounds
Against our rampired gates, and they shall ope;
I, with a troop of Florentines, will suddenly
Enter JULIET
Not for that neither: here's the pang that pinches:
That did attend themselves and had the virtue
Thy sister's naught: O Regan, she hath tied
very pretty boy. O' my troth, I looked upon him o'
Men are not still the same: 'twas time and griefs
Seem frosty? O, for honour of our land,
am as well in my wits, fool, as thou art.
Achilles! Achilles! Hector's slain! Achilles.
The heart of woman is! O Brutus,
When I came hither, I was lord high constable
one be a man of his own fancy, not to know what we
But the plain devil and dissembling looks,
Upon the naked shore at Ravenspurgh;
She carry armour as she hath begun.
O, that's well said; the chair!
My advocation is not now in tune;
have named uncertain; the time itself unsorted; and
The nature of our seats and make the rabble
My foreward shall be drawn out all in length,
Stay, Jaques, stay.
And my large kingdom for a little grave,
I pray you, though you mock me, gentlemen,
Do challenge thee to trial of a man.
and there is also another device in my prain, which
And threats the throat of that his officer
Shall Master Slender steal my Nan away
He's scarce awake: let him alone awhile.
'Here may you see the tyrant.'
By your untimely claspings with your child,
Enter CORIN
So cowards fight when they can fly no further;
Come, Antony, away!
The offence is holy that she hath committed;
With the best blood that I can meet withal
When there is in it but one only man.
He merits well to have her, that doth seek her,
You may behold confusion of your foes.
Than hate for Silvia that is gone for love.
These lazy knaves? Ye have made a fine hand, fellows:
Upon the heels of my presentment, sir.
My sword should shed hot blood, mine eyes no tears.
No, lady.
Nay, now dispatch; 'twas I that stabb'd young Edward,
So let it help me now against thy sword
Except it be to pray against thy foes.
Look you, sir, here is the hand and seal of the
Farewell! Othello's occupation's gone!
That I, your vassal, have employ'd and pain'd
To cut his throat i' the church.
ink-horn about his neck.
On height of our displeasure: friend or brother,
Holla! Bernardo!
Nor I, by Pluto: but that that likes not you pleases me best.
See you yond coign o' the Capitol, yond
How fiery and forward our pedant is!
Ay, madam, so you stumble not unheedfully.
And at the port expect you.
I speak no more than every one doth know.
So many courses of the sun enthroned,
Your wife Octavia, with her modest eyes
This fever, that hath troubled me so long,
is something musty.
A plague of opinion! a man may wear it on both
Another way so high a hope that even
dissolutely spent on Tuesday morning; got with
by the ears? make haste, lest mine be about your
Bringing rebellion broached on his sword,
And both shall cease, without your remedy.
It were a tedious difficulty, I think,
Too full of foolish pity, and Gloucester's show
Than to take in a town with gentle words,
Coming forward
I did; I saw him dead,
'In her excellent white bosom, these,  and c.'
I will be brief, for my short date of breath
Or I should breathe it so into thy body,
But soft! but soft! aside: here comes the king.
Under his chance: if we draw lots, he speeds;
At our great bidding?
But hollow men, like horses hot at hand,
We have yet many among us can gripe as hard as
We thank your grace.
It is the woman's part: be it lying, note it,
O, that we then could come by Caesar's spirit,
rising of the lark to the lodging of the lamb, vary
are drown'd.
desert before his birth, and, being born, his addition
discourse, of great admittance, authentic in your
Enter DEMETRIUS and CHIRON, braving
Aside
Tell him this tale; and from the mouth of England
Therefore, above the rest, we parley to you:
And shed my dear blood drop by drop in the dust,
Most sorry, you have broken from his liking
to my mistress.
And make it halt behind her.
This argues fruitfulness and liberal heart:
Enter CLARENCE, with drum and colours
Was timed with dying cries: alone he enter'd
But if I live, his feigned ecstasies
No, no; we will hold it as a dream till it appear
The Dauphin's meaning and our embassy?
Till Suffolk gave two dukedoms for his daughter.
O, handle not the theme, to talk of hands,
Exeunt
Lady, I am not well; else I should answer
I warrant him consul.
This is fairy gold, boy, and 'twill prove so: up
in a flint, which will not show without knocking.
Fulvia is dead.
Antony,
The lunatic, the lover and the poet
The time approaches
thy lungs military: art thou there? it is thine
How now, my lord!
he says he has a stratagem for't: when your
Exit a Servingman
Richer than sea and land? O, theft most base,
He's beat from his best ward.
How quickly were it gone!
And any thing that may not misbecome
honest method, as wholesome as sweet, and by very
Ratcliff, my lord; 'tis I. The early village-cock
Come, you and I will thither presently;
Go to the creating a whole tribe of fops,
I would not, in plain terms, from this time forth,
Has almost charmed me from my profession, by
The actor may plead pardon. I'll none now:
gap in your own honour, and shake in pieces the
You'll part away disgraced.
What, go you toward the Tower?
tongue is the clapper, for what his heart thinks his
And so shall mine, before you touch the meat.
Well, I shall be wiser.
The tribunes hear you not; no man is by;
many irreconciled iniquities, you may call the
May rather pluck on laughter than revenge;
Heard many grievous, I do say, my lord,
damned than to do't?
Yet, to have join'd with France in such alliance
No villanous bounty yet hath pass'd my heart;
well that prays for peace.
If I could see them.
The form of death: meantime I writ to Romeo,
I fear my Julia would not deign my lines,
To see his daughter, all his life's delight.
Did call me brother.
O the gods! what's the matter?
'Tis pitiful; but yet Iago knows
Sits in the wind against me.
As it should pierce a hundred thousand hearts;
We shall, my liege.
My life and services.
Here, sister; arm'd, and bloody in intent.
'Besides, you waste the treasure of your time with
You have no stomach having broke your fast;
That France must vail her lofty-plumed crest
With Roman swords, and my report was once
To gather in some debts, my son Lucentio
A widow cries; be husband to me, heavens!
When our deep plots do pall: and that should teach us
If this be magic, let it be an art
I will come after you with what good speed
But were you banish'd for so small a fault?
Detain no jot, I charge thee: write to him--
A light condition in a beauty dark.
O villain! thou hast stolen both mine office and my name.
Together with the terror of the place,--
From my master, Sir Proteus, madam.
Where our right valiant father is become.
For thou has lost thy princely privilege
Fulvia perchance is angry; or, who knows
The good gods preserve you!
Wounds will I lend the French instead of eyes,
Will we sing, and bless this place.
Amen!
Turn head, and stop pursuit; for coward dogs
Of one poor scruple, nay, if the scale do turn
To the ensuing age abhorr'd.' Speak to me, son:
And wet his grave with my repentant tears,
And the gods yield you for't!
Let fools do good, and fair men call for grace.
It did not lie there when I went to bed.
Bring in the admiration; that we with thee
Reads the inscription on MARINA's monument
Come, let us sup betimes, that afterwards
let him tell the king: we are prepared. I will set
Out of your favours, heavenly spirits, vouchsafe
the yarn she spun in Ulysses' absence did but fill
One drop of blood drawn from thy country's bosom
You men of Kent,--
As if I loved my little should be dieted
These oracles are hardly attain'd,
A hog, a headless bear, sometime a fire;
Monsieur Parolles, my lord calls for you.
Where is the Dauphin? Come, come from behind;
Exeunt
Though, I confess, much like the character
Kent! father! sisters! What, i' the storm? i' the night?
Octavia to his wife; whose beauty claims
promise him an excellent piece.
leave your courtesy, good mounsieur.
Let him be brought forth and borne hence for help.
I need not tell him that; he knows you are too diligent.
Will you be mine, now you are doubly won?
Alas, sir!
And, on my life, his malice 'gainst the lady
'Tis no less, I tell you, for the bawdy hand of the
Exeunt
Did not offend, nor were not worthy blame,
greatness whereof I cannot enough commend, comes
And here in sight of Rome to Saturnine,
Pinch him, and burn him, and turn him about,
I do digest the poison of thy flesh,
That so I harried him. Why, methinks, by him,
Made use and fair advantage of his days;
Or well or ill, as this day's battle's fought.
It is as fat and fulsome to mine ear
Bid ye so far forget yourselves? I gave ye
What is your pleasure, madam?
Let all the rest give place.
I leave an arrant knave with your worship; which I
Did you ever cure any so?
musty room, comes me the prince and Claudio, hand
For, by these blessed candles of the night,
there, ho!
By me they nothing gain an if I stay;
Uttering such dulcet and harmonious breath
The noble spirits to arms, they did perform
Go bid the priests do present sacrifice
Perpend my words, O Signieur Dew, and mark;
This paper is the history of my knowledge
This letter doth make good the friar's words,
I saw him yesterday, or t' other day,
And he that hath commanded is the king.
Well excused:
Proclaims him king, and many fly to him:
you shall be called to no more payments, fear no
Exeunt
All hid, all hid; an old infant play.
Fatal and ominous to noble peers!
study a speech of some dozen or sixteen lines, which
There, when my maiden priests are met together,
Ay, sir, I have them at my fingers' ends: marry,
To choke it in the utterance. So our virtues
What and how true thou art: he will advance thee;
Is now eclipsed; and it portends alone
The horrible conceit of death and night,
Virtuous and holy, be thou conqueror!
That through thy bosom makes me see thy heart.
She is sad and passionate at your highness' tent.
For night's swift dragons cut the clouds full fast,
That you must. Will you, upon good dowry, marry her?
Ay, but sir, 'While the grass grows,'--the proverb
You saw the mistress, I beheld the maid;
No, if a Scot would save his soul, he shall not:
If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
So singular in each particular,
O most lame and impotent conclusion! Do not learn
How he hath drunk, he cracks his gorge, his sides,
And think it no addition, nor my wish,
For my part, I have walk'd about the streets,
I shall, my lord.
constable?
Exeunt
She speaks this in the infirmity of sense.
SCENE IV. Another part of the field.
If any of my kinsmen find thee here.
They could not find a heart within the beast.
willingly, despise profit where you have most gain.
Till Henry, surfeiting in joys of love,
Needs not the painted flourish of your praise:
Re-enter CORIOLANUS
That blabb'd them with such pleasing eloquence,
Alas, he speaks but for his friend.
I'll be myself the harbinger and make joyful
Small cheer and great welcome makes a merry feast.
grave of it.
For I have seen our enemies' overthrow.
My lord,
Go, fellow, go, return unto thy lord;
I pray you, turn the key and keep our counsel.
Till she had kindled France and all the world,
[Aside to NORFOLK]          I another.
Upon my power I may dismiss this court,
Of these fair edifices 'fore my wars
But I will watch you from such watching now.
My lord of Burgundy.
Beneath abhorring. What would you have, you curs,
such things as you, I can scarce think there's any,
Woe to the land that's govern'd by a child!
Or those eyes shut, that make thee answer 'I.'
Re-enter BOULT
Too much the rein: the strongest oaths are straw
We from the west will send destruction
de knight, de lords, de gentlemen, my patients.
entertainment.
By the simplicity of Venus' doves,
On greatness' favour dream as I have done,
He needs not; it is no hidden virtue in him.
This fester'd joint cut off, the rest rest sound;
Thrice noble lord, let me entreat of you
Nay, but the man that was his bedfellow,
Madam, I was.
My love and her desert; that canst not dream,
No, my noble lord;
To make the perfect period of this peace.
Exeunt Antipholus of Syracuse and Antipholus of Ephesus
Slave!
That of his fortunes you should make a staff
Thou Icarus; thy life to me is sweet:
Our title to the crown and only claim
But wherefore dost thou come? is't for my life?
I would not, so with love I might entreat you,
And now I will unclasp a secret book,
And this same needy man must sell it me.
I do beseech your grace, for charity,
Should be call'd tyrants, butchers, murderers!
Or dead, give's cause to mourn his funeral,
As I did sleep under this yew-tree here,
I am one, my liege,
the grate, like a geminy of baboons. I am damned in
lustrous as ebony; and yet complainest thou of
Will you deny me now?
And hold me pace in deep experiments.
Why did you bring these daggers from the place?
time of my beauty, and am I now a subject for them?
I beseech your highness, do not marry me to a whore.
very low, my bond to the Jew is forfeit; and since
One drunkard loves another of the name.
That they have overborne their continents:
Patroclus, I'll speak with nobody.
Then I, as one that am the tongue of these,
The nobility are vex'd, whom we see have sided
Attend his majesty!
broached, and beard thee too. Look on me well: I
Let me make answer; thy usurping son.
Alencon, and an enemy to our person; if thou
The horn, I say. Farewell.
of a saint and the complexion of a devil, I had
Their mediation; must I be unfolded
ANTIPHOLUS
This oath I willingly take and will perform.
I heard nothing.
Enter the Earls of SOMERSET, SUFFOLK, and WARWICK; RICHARD PLANTAGENET, VERNON, and another Lawyer
With many heads butts me away. Nay, mother,
I say, bid come before us Angelo.
Your partner, as I hear, must die to-morrow,
Here's a stay
Were I alone to pass the difficulties
Their blood is caked, 'tis cold, it seldom flows;
I'ld not have show'd it.
And I am witness with her that she did.
Now, my lord, what shall we do, if we perceive
The sight whereof I think you had from me,
Hark! the trumpets.
Marry, and shall.
The Dian of that time so doth my wife
Tell him from me that he hath done me wrong,
Vincetino come of Bentivolii.
Yet I fear him;
As old as Sibyl and as curst and shrewd
To the protection of the prosperous gods,
I do not misdoubt my wife; but I would be loath to
O, did he so? I charge you, go with me.
To still my beating mind.
The lady that I sent for. Welcome, fair one!
The painter plays the spider and hath woven
And Dick the shepherd blows his nail
And so am I.
Marry, sir, nose-painting, sleep, and
Good Master Shallow, let him woo for himself.
to be got now-a-days, unless thou canst fish for't.
And full of new-found oaths; which he will break
mark the sequel, Master Brook: I suffered the pangs
Give me my sword.
She would to each one sip. You are retired,
It was your pleasure and your own remorse:
Lord Abergavenny; to whom by oath he menaced
Friendship is constant in all other things
Which for some reasons I would not have seen.
I'll wear the willow garland for his sake.'
Thy very stones prate of my whereabout,
store the world they played for.
Tears the supplication
Kills SATURNINUS. A great tumult. LUCIUS, MARCUS, and others go up into the balcony
Partition make with spectacles so precious
ANTIPHOLUS
A goodly lady, trust me; of the hue
And so have I address'd me. Fortune now
Come, I'll to my chamber. Would there had been some
Thy favour's good enough. Some jay of Italy
Might have found easy fines: but there to end
Give signs, sweet girl, for here are none
Peace! for I will not have to do with you.
From my lord to my lady.
And, for our father's sake and mother's care,
Two may keep counsel, putting one away?
Here lacks but your mother for to say amen.
Will't please your mightiness to wash your hands?
As bright Apollo's lute, strung with his hair:
I would it had been of horse. Where shall I find
I ken the wight: he is of substance good.
And constant do remain to keep him so.
Exeunt
The music plays; vouchsafe some motion to it.
Then forth, dear countrymen: let us deliver
will be with thee again.
For clothing me in these grave ornaments.
Your ignorant election; enforce his pride,
Half stints their strife before their strokes begin.
Here's a petition from a Florentine,
No planet is of mine.
And she an eater of her mother's flesh,
Sir, I will serve him; for I do find your hangman is
Be bold in us: we'll follow where thou lead'st,
I would rather have one of your father's getting.
Or void the field; they do offend our sight:
If it were, I deny her virginity: I was taken with a maid.
Now outlaw'd from my blood; he sought my life,
'Tis well, 'tis well; no more:
Hail, lords! I am return'd your soldier,
It is my will, the which if thou respect,
That I disdain: but for these other gawds,
Have put his knife to him.'
You may do it extempore, for it is nothing but roaring.
Yet to draw forth your noble ancestry
Being compact of credit, that you love us;
I'll never pause again, never stand still,
Good lords, make all the speedy haste you may.
To dance our ringlets to the whistling wind,
Exeunt GLOUCESTER and Servingmen
Itself to motion, like as it would speak;
Exeunt ROSALIND and CELIA
And think with wagging of your tongue to win me;
You must, as we do, gratify this gentleman,
A man already made, as to remit
But my outside to behold:
Why, then, give way, dull clouds, to my quick curses!
Last night, I hear, they lay at Northampton;
I think there is not half a kiss to choose
And on it have bestow'd more contrite tears
teacher. An the indentures be drawn, I'll away
One touch of nature makes the whole world kin,
Without my stir.
I have, so much wit thou lackest.
disgrace Hero before the whole assembly. and not marry her.
Plantagenet.
to me and say, after to-morrow, 'This is my glove,'
It is not for prisoners to be too silent in their
youth with comeliness plucked all gaze his way, when
And dare avow her beauty and her worth
For fear lest day should look their shames upon,
Your highness to assign our trial day.
Sweet words; or hath more ministers than we
Became the next day's master, till the last
What, with the case of eyes?
For all the Welshmen, hearing thou wert dead.
A trumpet within
Look, how thou dream'st! I say again, give out
To know the reason of these arms in peace;
He's both their parent, and he is their grave,
thou me yet?
Or wear it on my sword, yet my poor country
Ingrateful, savage and inhuman creature!
May counterpoise this rich and precious gift?
Why masters, have your instruments been in Naples,
What! sigh for the toothache?
poor with begging.
Or, if it must stand still, let wives with child
Why, I cannot name't but I shall offend.
Madam, I will.
new court?
And thou shalt be the third if this sword hold.
And what loss is it to be rid of care?
For my prosperity!
How is it with you, my most fair Bianca?
Exit
Ancient damnation! O most wicked fiend!
Exit
Popilius Lena speaks not of our purposes;
He'll beat Aufidius 'head below his knee
O yes, I saw sweet beauty in her face,
never buy and sell out of this word.
Then 'tis like the breath of an unfee'd lawyer; you
A better prince and benign lord,
Reflect on Rome as Titan's rays on earth,
have fortunes coming upon you. Mark me: you must
With an eye of green in't.
Drown'd! O, where?
What cannot be eschew'd must be embraced.
The holy suit which fain it would convince,
So every bondman in his own hand bears
Never, Paulina; so be blest my spirit!
Where were you bred?
If I should tell thee o'er this thy day's work,
An easy task; 'tis but to love a king.
Preserve the king.
Falseness cannot come from thee; for thou look'st
What man dost thou dig it for?
Upon these slanderers.
Villany, take your rapier.
To have them in safe stowage: may it please you
Hath almost made me traitor to myself:
He swung about his head and cut the winds,
One that was a woman, sir; but, rest her soul, she's dead.
To meet at Ninus' tomb, there, there to woo.
Since when I have been debtor to you for courtesies,
their leave: and there is a forerunner come from a
That were some love but little policy.
Else the Puck a liar call;
Come, come, my lord, you'ld spare your spoons: you
Ay, and for that thou diest.
Do you hear, ho? you must meet my master to
Till tongues fetch breath that may proclaim them louder;
SCENE IV. A Hall in York Place.
Marry, sir, with needle and thread.
To revel it with him and his new bride.'
And then it was when the unhappy king,
There have I made my promise
ANTIPHOLUS
They have e'en put my breath from me, the slaves.
grace, by the world, sometime to lean upon my poor
Here: what news?
Are not you he?
This found I on my tent this morning.
Alas, sir, how fell you besides your five wits?
O sweet Maria, empress of my love!
Fair love, you faint with wandering in the wood;
I will tell you why; so shall my anticipation
That basely fled when noble Talbot stood.
Having the fearful flying hare in sight,
ANTIPHOLUS
Yes; keep you warm.
Sir Thurio, fear not but that she will love you,
on. Jove and my stars be praised! Here is yet a
Peace be amongst them, if they turn to us;
Kneel down before him, hang upon his gown:
For many weary months.
DON
And every one his love-feat will advance
In sharing that which you have pill'd from me!
this hot weather. And I think this word 'sallet'
He's loving and most gracious: 'twill be much
decrease it upon better acquaintance, when we are
Marry, mine host, because I cannot be merry.
Such shaping fantasies, that apprehend
That broker, that still breaks the pate of faith,
Others, like soldiers, armed in their stings,
Would I were dead, so you did live again!
Accommodated by the place, more charming
In your distrust.
And treats of Tereus' treason and his rape:
Of you, my noble cousin, Lord Aumerle;
That all the travellers do fear so much.
Welcome, young man;
Enter ANTONIO
To fear the foe, since fear oppresseth strength,
bitter fool and a sweet fool?
Do thine own fortunes that obedient right
Call you this gamut? tut, I like it not:
court, shepherd?
Then, masters, look to see a troublous world.
things, all but what she has with her: this being
How dost thou pity him whom thou dost trouble?
The commons will not then be satisfied.
Prevent it, resist it, let it not be so,
I have forgot your name; but, sure, that part
One care abroad; he would have all as merry
Hath made his pendent bed and procreant cradle:
My heart was to thy rudder tied by the strings,
All exercise on thee; thou shalt be pinch'd
I scarce can speak to thank you for myself.
As e'er thy father Henry made it mine;
The palsy, and not fear, provokes me.
As you must needs, for you all clapp'd your hands
And leave you hindmost;
Stand aside: the noise they make
Not fearing death, nor shrinking for distress,
I stand accountant for as great a sin,
I would fain say, bleed tears, for I am sure my
In this which he accounts so clearly won:
No, truly.
though not with bag and baggage, yet with scrip and scrippage.
And draw their honours reeking up to heaven;
Should conquer Antony; but woe 'tis so!
To seek thy life by beneficial help:
an into their estimation and report: but he hath so
And in the mean time sojourn'd at my father's;
This island's mine, by Sycorax my mother,
An if what pleases him shall pleasure you.
SCENE I. The wood. TITANIA lying asleep.
Enter Vintner
chamber; for Pyramus and Thisby says the story, did
The raging rocks
Here SALISBURY lifteth himself up and groans
And, pretty child, sleep doubtless and secure,
Of my long weary life is come upon me. Farewell:
thou art a man!
Why should a man be proud? How doth pride grow? I
[Aside]  All will revolt from me, and turn to him.
Hath claw'd me in his clutch,
Wherever sorrow is, relief would be:
From both, my lord. Bellario greets your grace.
I dare be bound he's true and shall perform
God bless your grace with health and happy days!
Sir, I will use
Blow like sweet roses in this summer air.
To wash away my woful monuments.
furred pack, she washes bucks here at home.
You hear my spell is lawful: do not shun her
That now our loss might be ten times so much?
That like events may ne'er it ruinate.
Lesser than Macbeth, and greater.
That so he might recover what was lost.
Then to sea, boys, and let her go hang!
He words me, girls, he words me, that I should not
And fell below his stem: his sword, death's stamp,
As love is, my lord, before it loves.
One word more; I charge thee
As honest madam's issue? Why brand they us
Exempt from envy, but not from disdain,
Look, who comes here! a grave unto a soul;
And no one else but the deliver'd empress.
Within
Exeunt
Her gentlewomen, like the Nereides,
But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
And I am nothing slow to slack his haste.
I have eyed with best regard and many a time
Where was his son when they did take his eyes?
him truly that will put me in trust: to love him
To-morrow, then, I judge a happy day.
And stolen my love's heart from him?
Which I have done, because unworthily
By love, who first did prompt me to inquire;
behold. Sweet men, come to him.
a very good report o' the worm; but he that will
I feel this pin prick. Would I were assured
They saw we had a purpose of defence.
And since Lord Helicane enjoineth us,
Triumphs for nothing and lamenting toys
Most like I did, for I was dead.
Thou art the damned doorkeeper to every
ruff and sing; ask questions and sing; pick his
Nor I your mother?
I would I could not think it: that thought is
indict the author of affectation; but called it an
And so am I, being else by faith enforced
conqueror; and it would do well to set the deer's
Or all or lose his hire.
The horn, the horn, the lusty horn
Now, for a while farewell, good Duke of York.
Filth, thou liest!
And yet, incaged in so small a verge,
To stay him from the fall of vanity:
Truly, sir, the better for my foes and the worse
To furnish me with some swift means of death
Subjected tribute to commanding love,
[Reads]  'So it is,'--
Strike heaven on the face, that it resounds
Adieu, good neighbour.
My lord,
Plantagenet, of thee and these thy sons,
By heaven, I will acquaint his majesty
And why dost thou deny the bag of gold?
Thrice-blessed they that master so their blood,
O heavens! it cannot be.
But, for those earthly faults, I quit them all;
Your franchises, whereon you stood, confined
And what is Edward but ruthless sea?
He is fled, my lord, and all his powers do yield;
For France hath flaw'd the league, and hath attach'd
And God in justice hath revealed to us
Re-enter LUCIUS
My lord, you'll bear us company?
I have no brother, I am like no brother;
In the deep bosom of the ocean buried.
Thawing cold fear, that mean and gentle all,
What, is it a time to jest and dally now?
Lame, foolish, crooked, swart, prodigious,
But now nor Lucius nor Lavinia lives
How now, sir! you villain!
Our fatherless distress was left unmoan'd;
So long? Nay then, let the devil wear black, for
Or in my cell there would she kill herself.
Our whole city is much bound to him.
That so I may, by this device, at least
True; made the lame to leap and fly away.
Have had to resort to you: for here have been
Made by some other deity than nature,
That I may kindly give one fainting kiss.
ACT V
Instruct my daughter how she shall persever,
When blows have made me stay, I fled from words.
Till that the nature of your fault be known
And question this most bloody piece of work,
place thee, I will.
I hear there is an overture of peace.
Now comes the wanton blood up in your cheeks,
Why, there, there, there, there! a diamond gone,
Wilt thou ever be a foul-mouthed and calumnious knave?
Thy broken faith hath made a prey for worms.
Sigh'd truer breath; but that I see thee here,
distemper yours; therefore I shall crave of you your
Persuade him that he hath been lunatic;
First Serving-Man	It is the noble Duke of Gloucester.
Yet this before my father's majesty--
I am commanded, with your leave and favour,
7. SUFFOLK, in his robe of estate, his coronet
Alike betwitched by the charm of looks,
A deed of dreadful note.
We thus submit unto,--our sovereign.
Embracing him
And thy ambition, Gloucester.
continually; 'tis her command.
But they did say their prayers, and address'd them
I have been long a sleeper; but, I hope,
Of this proud king, who studies day and night
O, hold me not with silence over-long!
With her companion grief must end her life.
Sky-planted batters all rebelling coasts?
All which secure and sweetly he enjoys,
Therefore, fair Hermia, question your desires;
Prescribe not us our duties.
for, as it is a heartbreaking to see a handsome man
Some welcome for the mistress of the house.
Thou, sapient sir, sit here. Now, you she foxes!
Thy grandam loves thee; and thy uncle will
And ye shall find me thankful. Lead the way, lords:
sun looking with a southward eye upon him, where he
To make hazard of new fortunes here:
York lies; he might have sent and had the horse;
Dost thou know her by my gazing on her, and yet
I did enact Julius Caesar: I was killed i' the
It shall be so, disdain they ne'er so much.
like my lady's eldest son, evermore tattling.
Ay, Casca; tell us what hath chanced to-day,
Why, fool?
What fairies haunt this ground? A book? O rare one!
The senate-house of planets all did sit,
Were nothing prince-like; for he did provoke me
Hath given the dare to Caesar, and commands
And he that's once denied will hardly speed.
Yet, if you please to hold him off awhile,
Cost him his eyes.
And might not gain so great a happiness
Then is doomsday near: but your news is not true.
steward, that stole his master's daughter.
Drum afar off
To the gates of Tartar, thou most excellent devil of wit!
Remember Margaret was a prophetess.'
I should your lordship.
Both, my good host, to go along with me:
Exit, attended
To sleep by hate, and fear no enmity?
SCENE II. Rousillon. Before the COUNT's palace.
To save me from the danger that might come
'Tis full of woe: yet I can give you inkling
Now, sir, what is your text?
Your pleasure, madam?
Come hither, little kinsman; hark, a word.
medicine to a mortifying mischief. I cannot hide
Must get a father, call'd 'supposed Vincentio;'
Even he, my lord.
And happy always was it for that son
And laugh upon the apple of her eye?
An therefore, goaded with most sharp occasions,
And hang a calf's-skin on his recreant limbs.
as I am a gentleman, I will live to be thankful to
Was not Gaunt just, and is not Harry true?
No, not for Venice.
your swag-bellied Hollander--Drink, ho!--are nothing
He calls for wine: 'A health!' quoth he, as if
La fin couronne les oeuvres.
O, I smell false Latin; dunghill for unguem.
Nay, and you will not, sir, I'll take my heels.
That your good beauties be the happy cause
No.
Enter DENNY
Which is--no, no--which was the fairest dame
Indeed, he hath an excellent good name.
For wisdom's sake, a word that all men love,
And shall have your will, because our king:
Through Athens' gates have we devised to steal.
Well, come again to-morrow: fare thee well:
Than the constraint of hospitable zeal
O hell! what have we here?
with the oaken garland.
Dies
By this encompassment and drift of question
This cold night will turn us all to fools and madmen.
sworn that I am no fox; but he will not pass his
By my faith, sir, but it is; never any body saw it
The wanton Edward, and the lusty George?
My lord, come you again into my chamber:
with me, let not your worship think me the poor
access to you.
You speak this to fetch me in, my lord.
Neither his daughter, if we judge by manners;
Exeunt PARIS and MENELAUS
Note this before my notes;
A green goose a goddess: pure, pure idolatry.
And free access and favour as the rest:
Let me be blest to make this happy close;
pray you, sir, of what disposition was the duke?
Why do you stay so long, my lords of France?
head worth a hat, or his chin worth a beard?
'What shall befall the Duke of Somerset?'
Do not you chide; I have a thing for you.
Urged by the commons? Doth his majesty
So thrive I, as I truly swear the like!
Ne'er may I look on day, nor sleep on night,
Flew on him, and amongst them fell'd him dead;
And when she seem'd to shake and fear your looks,
Enter THAISA
Let him fly far:
From our free person she should be confined,
Give him defence against the elements,
is, even till the altitude of his virtue.
You are three men of sin, whom Destiny,
All but in that! Good wax, thy leave. Blest be
mail, sir: O, sir, plantain, a plain plantain! no
to meddle or make. You may be gone; it is not good
Lord cardinal, the king's further pleasure is,
the young Lord Paris?
By nature made for murders and for rapes.
Nature is fine in love, and where 'tis fine,
First, let me tell you whom you have condemn'd:
The Prince of Wales doth join with all the world
But speak, Egeus; is not this the day
And if thou canst awake by four o' the clock,
For Somerset, off with his guilty head.
'Twas a rough night.
It is almost morning,
Who are they that complain unto the king,
twenty, good Master Page! Master Page, will you go
Let come what comes; only I'll be revenged
Why then you must. Will you put out mine eyes?
The duke comes home to-morrow; nay, dry your eyes;
should lodge them with this sign.
Of your own cause. Is this the witness, friar?
And most assured that he is a friend
Have not saints lips, and holy palmers too?
Is not the king's name twenty thousand names?
But when I call to mind your gracious favours
Try fortune with him in a single fight.
SCENE II. The Earl of Gloucester's castle.
Had I it written, I would tear the word.
Too late comes rescue: he is ta'en or slain;
O, pardon me: 'twill do me good to walk.
And lawfully by this the Jew may claim
Divinely bent to meditation;
Was't you that did so oft contrive to kill him?
Double and treble admonition, and still forfeit in
Prosper our colours in this dangerous fight!
I know it well, sir, lo, here is the chain.
desires, and my requests, and my petitions, to eat,
My wife is nothing; nor nothing have these nothings,
craft, being richer than innocency, stands for the facing.
Recanting goodness, sorry ere 'tis shown;
Caesar's will?
Exit
For Suffolk's duke, may he be suffocate,
Old lord, I cannot blame thee,
'Redime te captum quam queas minimo.'
O, what a scene of foolery have I seen,
The name, and all the additions to a king;
Helen of Greece was fairer far than thou,
Stoop, then, and wash. How many ages hence
My father, poorly led? World, world, O world!
If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
some reservation of your wrongs: he is my good
I know not how I lost him. Here I kneel:
SONG.
Thy heaven is on earth; thine eyes and thoughts
Do him that kindness, and take leave of him.
Make tender of to thy true worthiness:
Stanley, I prithee, go, and take me hence;
I am a-weary, give me leave awhile:
Such beastly shameless transformation,
That upon Sunday is the wedding-day.
Enter NESTOR
And, from some knowledge and assurance, offer
Therefore thou sleep'st so sound.
But, ere we go, regard this dying prince,
This servitude makes you to keep unwed.
She would sit still and weep.
And know some nurture. But forbear, I say:
To wrathful terms: this place is dangerous;
He has discover'd my design, and I
Even when you please, since you will have it so.
more mature dignities and royal necessities made
We'll mingle our bloods together in the earth,
gallowses! I speak against my present profit, but
Go thou: I'll fetch some flax and whites of eggs
Enter MACBETH
O friar, the damned use that word in hell;
Was to be so unwise, to be so kind.
He's welcome.
Then speak at once what is it thou demand'st.
That thrust had been mine enemy indeed,
You bead, you acorn.
But is there no quick recreation granted?
Free speech and fearless I to thee allow.
ACT III
Tell her I send to her my kind commends;
Lychorida, no tears:
ACT III
I think not so, my lord.
shall not shortly have a rasher on the coals for money.
Or never more to view nor day nor light.
That men are merriest when they are from home.
eats cow-dung for sallets; swallows the old rat and
I prithee, and I'll pay thee bounteously,
Give me assurance with some friendly vow,
'Tis wonderful!
That thus without advice begin to love her!
Aloud
'Clarence is come; false, fleeting, perjured Clarence,
Must or for Britons slay us, or receive us
The multitudinous seas in incarnadine,
Achilles stands i' the entrance of his tent:
'I am conqueror of myself.' Thou art sworn, Eros,
If the sea's stomach be o'ercharged with gold,
I have heard of the lady, and good words went with her name.
And me, my lord, grant me the combat too.
Here's Agamemnon, an honest fellow enough and one
Let's teach ourselves that honourable stop,
More potent than the first.
Dost thou know the difference, my boy, between a
And now excess of it will make me surfeit.
With distinct breath and consign'd kisses to them,
Make us partakers of a little gain,
My tongue will tell the anger of my heart,
Lo, this is all:--nay, yet depart not so;
[Aside to CLARENCE]  The match is made; she seals it
They love and dote on; call him bounteous Buckingham,
Her injury the beadle to her sin,
Ere this rude beast will profit.
Three times hath Henry Bolingbroke made head
Just the contrary; the better for thy friends.
Valentine's page; and sent, I think, from Proteus.
Makes you think so.
Holden at Bury the first of this next month.
For I had then laid wormwood to my dug,
And whither go they?
Leaps down
Not he, I hope.
All manner of men assembled here in arms this day
But, so it is, it is not. Was this taken
As well we know your tenderness of heart
What, here? O nation, that thou couldst remove!
Seven times tried that judgment is,
If fear hath made thee faint, as me it hath--
Praying for both parts:
Why, here he comes, swelling like a turkey-cock.
That only wounds by hearsay.
How! my issue!
Out of my way, unless he bid 'em; but
O, why should nature build so foul a den,
England, to mope with his fat-brained followers so
Which even now stand in act, that, for their souls,
Exeunt
Come, lady, I will show thee to my kin;
Assure yourselves, will never be unkind:
And at thy mercy shalt they stoop and kneel,
Jog on, jog on, the foot-path way,
To gratulate the gentle princes there.
Seeing those beads of sorrow stand in thine,
And his whole kingdom into desolation.
Upon example; so the spirit is eased:
An please your majesty, let his neck answer for it,
Fair lovers, you are fortunately met:
That Rhodes is dress'd in: if we make thought of this,
for running!
O rare instinct!
Thou scarlet sin, robb'd this bewailing land
Some salve for perjury.
To the PRINCESS
With such integrity, she did confess
ACT I
Much good do you, scauld knave, heartily. Nay, pray
Exit the BASTARD
But weakly guarded, where the breach was made.
[Giving his petition]  Against my master, Thomas
Report of fashions in proud Italy,
And meritorious shall that hand be call'd,
Exeunt
What wouldst thou write of me, if thou shouldst
Wherein we must have use of your advice:
Give me his gage: lions make leopards tame.
Yes, madam, he was of that consort.
The famed Cassibelan, who was once at point--
they'ld do't!
How ill this taper burns! Ha! who comes here?
To harder bosoms! Looking on the lines
My gracious sovereign,
The one the other poison'd for my sake,
Sir, most heedfully.
To shun the danger that his soul divines.
Let her not walk i' the sun: conception is a
Would not be friendly to.
A terrible childbed hast thou had, my dear;
finger in the fire, and need not.
Peace, villain, peace!'--even thus he rates
His contemplation were above the earth,
Of her own clime, complexion, and degree,
To your so infinite loss, so in our trifles
And rather father thee than master thee.
bravely marching, it hath served me instead of a
Yes, that a' did; and said they were devils
And you say, you will have her, when I bring her?
A man that had a wife with such a wit, he might say
And strays about to find 'em.
Over the glittering helmet of my foe!
Exeunt, marching
And once again I do receive thee honest.
Marshal, ask yonder knight in arms,
Which is the bell: so sighs and tears and groans
And, in the number, thee that wishest shame!
How now, fair maid?
If thou dost love fair Hero, cherish it,
Whom ne'er the word of 'No' woman heard speak,
But, to the matter that we have in hand:
most dreadful thing; for there is not a more fearful
Spake he so doubtfully, thou couldst not feel his meaning?
An offer, uncle, that we will accept:
Even to the frozen ridges of the Alps,
As thou shalt reign but by their sufferance.
Peace, peace! you durst not so have tempted him.
Fare you well, with all my heart.
ACT III
this? Am I ridden with a Welsh goat too? shall I
Tyrants themselves wept when it was reported.
Our grandam earth, having this distemperature,
Help, hold his brows! he'll swoon! Why look you pale?
Lucentio is your name; of whence, I pray?
Enter a Messenger
a good silling, I warrant you, or I will change it.
And the nobility of Rome are his:
Thou grievest my gall.
Tell them, when that my mother went with child
As will a chestnut in a farmer's fire?
of thee than a Barbary cock-pigeon over his hen,
Or that I could forget what I have been,
I do believe you think what now you speak;
What, has this thing appear'd again to-night?
Hang him instantly.
As is my grief, or lesser than my name!
Which swell'd so much that it did almost stretch
Who, certain of his fate, loves not his wronger;
but if he had not been in drink, he would have
The very list, the very utmost bound
This reprobate till he were well inclined;
And this is mine: sweet Henry, favour him.
Dies
Enter MISTRESS OVERDONE
And 'tis this fever that keeps Troy on foot,
Hath he so long held out with me untired,
Ay, Silvia; for your sake.
For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
ACT III
but that they call compliment is like the encounter
Thou art welcome, Caius.
There is my pledge; accept it, Somerset.
My hangings all of Tyrian tapestry;
Which owe the crown that thou o'ermasterest?
I know her spirits are as coy and wild
An if I wist he did,--but let it rest;
Where are thy tenants and thy followers?
Enter COUNTESS and Clown
O judgment! thou art fled to brutish beasts,
As Falstaff, she and I, are newly met,
Come, come, come.
With her I lived in joy; our wealth increased
Follow me!
To whom do lions cast their gentle looks?
And is this all?
such an answer would stop them all. To be now a
Your high engender'd battles 'gainst a head
See, what a scourge is laid upon your hate,
ACT III
The more it promises: as it ebbs, the seedsman
Why not on Proteus, as of all the rest?
Yet hope, succeeding from so fair a tree
I am for other than for dancing measures.
As it makes harmful all that speak of it.
I never knew woman love man so.
Ay, boy.
Does conquer him that did his master conquer
'Hang-hog' is Latin for bacon, I warrant you.
Alarums. Enter KING HENRY and forces, EXETER, and others
requiring with a plausible obedience; agree with
drums! Only to seem to deserve well, and to
By a divine instinct men's minds mistrust
Raise up the organs of her fantasy;
Advantaging their loan with interest
And call thy husband hither.
Should straight fall mad, or else die suddenly.
Well, sir, this gentleman is come to me,
You would quickly learn to know him by his voice.
Why, every day, to-morrow. Come, go in:
the instant: by heart you love her, because your
This is his majesty; say your mind to him:
Will knit and break religions, bless the accursed,
Exit Servant, with LUCENTIO and HORTENSIO, BIONDELLO following
And make death proud to take us. Come, away:
His own impatience
Come.
She hath, and in that sparing makes huge waste,
Alas, poor Clarence! is it for a wife
And steal immortal blessing from her lips,
So Antony loves.
The very beams will dry those vapours up,
Were stol'n, and to this hour no guess in knowledge
And lay those honours on your high deserts.
Sirs, strive no more: such wither'd herbs as these
than she is requested: this broken joint between
Leaving his wealth and ease,
Read it not, noble lords;
Why, boy, although our mother, unadvised,
As is the bud bit with an envious worm,
And we are graced with wreaths of victory.
Aside
is so admired?
What, art thou afraid?
of them; two I am sure I have paid, two rogues
Doubled with thanks and service, from whose help
That mightily deceives you.
time: after your death you were better have a bad
Exeunt severally
Go to the Douglas, and deliver him
Exit
I' the privy chamber?
I the great toe! why the great toe?
Exeunt
be ta'en from her.
Are to a wise man ports and happy havens.
She twits me with my falsehood to my friend;
How many score of miles may we well ride
Enter ORLANDO, with a paper
Where is my lord the king?
He, woman;
O, who can hold a fire in his hand
See, how they kiss and court! Signior Lucentio,
And there is nothing left remarkable
Had you a special warrant for the deed?
To make us strangers to his looks of love.
Poor lady, she were better love a dream.
Whereof the root was fix'd in virtue's ground,
Why, then, 'tis none to you; for there is nothing
No.
Brave thee! ay, by the best blood that ever was
My father's land, as was my father's will.
Grant me this boon.
I pray you, sirs, lie in my tent and sleep;
In this same interlude it doth befall
Nay, rather, good my lords, be second to me:
Like graves i' the holy churchyard.
Setting your scorns and your mislike aside,
justices of peace, to call poor men before them
It doth not fit me. Hold, sir, here's my purse.
A plot upon her virtuous husband's life;
ACT I
Grace go with you, Benedicite!
And hold your hands in benediction o'er me:
That could endure the toothache patiently,
It sends some precious instance of itself
To use my lawful sword!
So first the harmless sheep doth yield his fleece
Than Cambridge is, hath likewise sworn. But, O,
As to expend your time with us awhile,
But that thou interrupt'st our merriment.
Matter of marriage was the charge he gave me,
Never, my lord; therefore prepare to die.
Duke Menaphon, your most renowned uncle.
will put it, as they say, to fortuna de la guerra.
Is, as a virtue, fix'd, to-day was moved:
'Twere best he speak no harm of Brutus here.
Enter MARK ANTONY and CANIDIUS
will fit any question.
But with advice and silent secrecy.
To be disgraced by an inkhorn mate,
So looks the pent-up lion o'er the wretch
I am robbed, sir, and beaten; my money and apparel
she comes in the habit of a light wench: and thereof
Sinfully pluck'd, and not a man of you
I may not answer.
Nay, but I know who loves him.
Come, let us four to dinner: I dare say
Myself have heard a voice to call him so.
The bidding of the fullest man, and worthiest
cross-gartered: I say, remember. Go to, thou art
A fustian riddle!
That makes himself, but for our honour therein,
assistance therein.
O, while you live, tell truth and shame the devil!
Stabs herself
Thrown upon this shore. I oped the coffin,
Enter CORIN and SILVIUS
O Jesu, my lord, my lord!
Express'd and not express'd. But when this ring
We will here part.
We charge you, on allegiance to ourself,
Swift as a shadow, short as any dream;
Prepares for some attempt of war.
Henry the Sixth, in infant bands crown'd King
The music plays
Who prologue-like your humble patience pray,
Sir,
Upon old Brutus' statue: all this done,
Gives me superfluous death.
No father his son dearer: truth to tell thee,
Too good to be so and too bad to live,
We will attend to neither.
Since that my penitence comes after all,
But that is lost for being Richard's friend,
If that I could for weeping, you should hear,--
find him not there, seek him i' the other place
Enter BANQUO
We'll beat 'em into bench-holes: I have yet
good discretion.
Duke Humphrey has done a miracle to-day.
Wert thou not brother to great Edward's son,
kinsman, he's a most notable coward, an infinite and
Gregory, o' my word, we'll not carry coals.
did come to his hands, and commands shall be
A little gale will soon disperse that cloud
washing her hands: I have known her continue in
Command into obedience: fear and niceness--
Ill mayst thou thrive, if thou grant any grace!
Your lord; myself and other noble friends,
more of you to myself than you can with modesty
not drowned. Is the storm overblown? I hid me
wise, no less noble, much more gentle, and altogether
plague upon Antenor! I would they had broke 's neck!
--Is't possible?--Confess--handkerchief!--O devil!--
Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
So far afoot, I shall be weary, love.
Exeunt OTHELLO and DESDEMONA
Out, out! My lords, an please you, 'tis not so;
To visit me. You know your office, brother:
If I could bid the fifth welcome with so good a
And, now the matter grows to compromise,
His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!
That they'll not show their teeth in way of smile,
And all the ruins of distressful times
He is your husband on a pre-contract:
down; I come to speak with her, indeed.
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as before
And I take him to be valiant.
myself, to be in a due resolution.
If I do not, damn me.
There's comfort yet; they are assailable;
am the dog: no, the dog is himself, and I am the
Marcus.' 'He killed my father.'
Enter MARK ANTONY
A woman.
Was with long use account no sin.
Hath she made her affection known to Benedick?
Whilst rank corruption, mining all within,
God's benison go with you; and with those
Put up your swords; you know not what you do.
These herblets shall, which we upon you strew.
Your rage mistakes us.
Makes nice of no vile hold to stay him up:
As doth a lion in a herd of neat;
He did it with a serious mind; a heed
I'll join with black despair against my soul,
This pert Biron was out of countenance quite.
And we his subjects sworn in all allegiance
Then to cart with Rosalind.
hath not a glimpse of, nor any man an attaint but he
'Twas merry when
Yea, or else it were pity but they should suffer
The Dauphin crowned king! all fly to him!
assigns, as girdle, hangers, and so: three of the
That fought with us upon Saint Crispin's day.
So please your grace, my ancient;
To gratify your honourable youth,
deliver thy indignation to him by word of mouth.
And now both rivals, to mock Helena:
If wars, we are unable to resist.
That under covert and convenient seeming
Enter GLOUCESTER
Why, Apemantus?
No;
ANTIPHOLUS
is enough to be the decay of lust and late-walking
I will be thine; and till that instant shut
Exeunt, fighting
And make us heirs of all eternity.
With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
Were I my father, coz, would I do this?
By words or blows here let us win our right.
If I should tell my history, it would seem
it with stamped coin, not stabbing steel; therefore
And yet I will not name it; and yet I care not;
Call it a travel that thou takest for pleasure.
How died my master, Strato?
charge: you shall comprehend all vagrom men; you are
Left and abandon'd of his velvet friends,
I am for it, lieutenant; and I'll do you justice.
I'll mark no words that smooth-faced wooers say:
Is now become a god, and Cassius is
feel, will break the back of man, the heart of monster.
'Tis said they eat each other.
saying was born, of 'I fear no colours.'
By the kind gods, 'tis most ignobly done
the tongue's end, canary to it with your feet, humour
Then linger not, my lord, away, take horse.
Re-enter Provost
O'er courtiers' knees, that dream on court'sies straight,
but yet I could accuse me of such things that it
Rather than want a spirit: appear and pertly!
What made me love thee? let that persuade thee
Already to their wormy beds are gone;
And I must be from thence!
Therefore you speak unskilfully: or if your
And wager on your heads: he, being remiss,
and his good will obtained: name the day of
Makes factious feasts; rails on our state of war,
Why, then will I no more:
O, if in black my lady's brows be deck'd,
We must return to the court of guard: the night
But may imagine how the bird was dead,
Thine own for ever, and I, thy Caliban,
Ay, my lord,
soldiers, three hundred and odd pounds. I press me
SCENE V. Paris. The KING's palace.
Here, here, here's an excellent place; here we may
Ere it was ask'd; but when the way was made,
As, nimble jugglers that deceive the eye,
Caesar cried 'Help me, Cassius, or I sink!'
The crown and comfort of my life, your favour,
that may not sully the chariness of our honesty. O,
They do disdain us much beyond our thoughts,
And in this mist at all adventures go.
It is the purpose that makes strong the vow;
Began to crack: twice then the trumpets sounded,
Ay, with all my heart,
Not a whit: I have a device to make all well.
be your tutor: suit the action to the word, the
Stir not until the signal.
Too old by heaven: let still the woman take
That you ask me what you are, and do not know
Your name, sir, truly.
Striking her: she falls
To them for you.
Ay, marry, will we; therefore get ye gone.
the hands of one, as he thinks, the most brave,
This hill is far enough. Look, look, Titinius;
Change slander to remorse; that is some good:
As to be call'd but viceroy of the whole?
They fight; TYBALT falls
Reach me thy hand, that I may help thee out;
That whatsoever I did bid thee do,
Awake thee!
They'll pawn their swords for my enfranchisement.
To say 'Beseech you, cease.' You have made fair hands,
I had been happy, if the general camp,
Your grace may enter now.
That would I know too: I warrant, one that knows him not.
not see her paddle with the palm of his hand? didst
Which we ourselves have plough'd for, sow'd,
For what is in this world but grief and woe?
And therefore shall it charm thy riotous tongue.
The rest will ne'er come in, if he be out
but by a metaphor.
For three months; well.
thee, so thou wilt be capable of a courtier's
Did nothing.
them; item, one neck, one chin, and so forth. Were
What, ho! no watch? no passage? murder! murder!
There is a mystery--with whom relation
You are a saucy boy: is't so, indeed?
Exit
So can I name his faults,--
But lately splinter'd, knit, and join'd together,
As the dead carcasses of unburied men
And then to have a wretched puling fool,
I will not be the executioner.
of measure sad?
fear and danger, that his personal return was
Shall be my brother; be he ne'er so vile,
With unrestrained loose companions,
I would divorce me from thy mother's tomb,
armour on my back, under the correction of bragging
cables of perdurable toughness; I could never
The king's a beggar, now the play is done:
Ah, poor my lord, what tongue shall smooth thy name,
attempted? Love is a familiar; Love is a devil:
I am not mad: I would to heaven I were!
Or worthily, as a good subject should,
high-resolved men, bent to the spoil,
Let me be blessed for the peace I make,
Have you the tongues?
Unclaim'd of any man. But who comes here?
And from her jealous arms pluck him perforce.
Come, boy, and go with me: thy sight is young,
to seek you both.
This be Damascus, be thou cursed Cain,
[Reads]
I have, thou gallant Trojan, seen thee oft
Let pale-faced fear keep with the mean-born man,
And thou shalt be canonized, cardinal;
Well, sir; my mistress is the sweetest lady--Lord,
For them! I cannot do it to the gods;
Master, I have gone through for this piece, you see:
When half to half the world opposed, he being
May this, almost a miracle, be done?
When I to feast expressly am forbid;
Are mere usurpers, tyrants and what's worse,
Well, and you be not turned Turk, there's no more
the master and main exercise, the incorporate
tick in a sheep than such a valiant ignorance.
Do you not hope your children shall be kings,
Dwell in his musings: but I am afraid
Call we to mind, and mark but this for proof,
To make this good?
Their noise be our instruction. Ladders, ho!
O, beat away the busy meddling fiend
And charge us there upon inter'gatories,
Genitive case!
Through tatter'd clothes small vices do appear;
Yield, or thou diest.
Who therewith angry, when it next came there,
That trace him in his line. No boasting like a fool;
No one but he should be about the king;
But I can give thee more:
Exit KING HENRY VIII, frowning upon CARDINAL WOLSEY: the Nobles throng after him, smiling and whispering
I must excuse myself, Master Ford.
For you must know, we have with special soul
And gives memorial dainty kisses to it,
at the gate?
very often like a knight; and, generally, in all
To such as love not sorrow; but another,
Tell me, was he arrested on a band?
Ay, ay, a scratch, a scratch; marry, 'tis enough.
And so, good night.
Have not devised this slander; I'll be hang'd else.
My lord, some two days since I saw the prince,
Not I.
You know, none so well, none so well as you, of my
I hear it by the way; but I will send:
must act for me, if thy faith be not tainted with
Where meet we?
Beweep this cause again, I'll pluck ye out,
And by these badges understand the king.
Damsel of France, I think I have you fast:
Re-enter Clown and Shepherd
world, familiar to us and unknown to lay apart
Welcome is peace, if he on peace consist;
But where there is true friendship, there needs none.
These news would cause him once more yield the ghost.
For showing me again the eyes of man!
Hath crawl'd into the favour of the king,
My letters say a hundred and seven galleys.
the parings.
You put me off with limber vows; but I,
I will tell thee wonders.
Alarum. Enter MARK ANTONY, in a march; SCARUS, with others
Even till destruction sicken; answer me
To-morrow night look that thou lie alone;
Bid him shed tears, as being overjoy'd
teeth in your service. God be with my old master!
Your company at dinner.
As in a looking-glass, and then to sigh, as 'twere
To CLEOPATRA
Enter RATCLIFF, with halberds, carrying RIVERS, GREY, and VAUGHAN to death
not sprites.
approaches; courtesies there to me,--
Where is the master, boatswain?
There's some ill planet reigns:
And boarded her i' the wanton way of youth:
While pride is fasting in his wantonness!
One of the prettiest touches of all and that which
Or I shall break that merry sconce of yours
Which sometime hath his hour with every man.
And she alone is heir to both of us:
You heavens, give me that patience, patience I need!
Do you hear aught, sir, of a battle toward?
Yet here she is allow'd her virgin crants,
Why, then will I tell thee--that thy master stays
Which can interpret further: only, I say,
Wish him ten fathom deep: this duke as much
My lord, I pray you, hear me.
Richmond, in Yorkshire, sent out a boat
Let 'em enter.
Enter GEORGE
That glues my lips and will not let me speak.
We do not mean the coursing snatchers only,
The fiery orbs above and the twinn'd stones
greater soldier.
Enter MISTRESS PAGE, with a letter
He were no lion, were not Romans hinds.
Why should I not? doth he not deserve well?
Is she a Capulet?
By means whereof the towns each day revolted.
One writ with me in sour misfortune's book!
Now, now: I have not winked since I saw these
I have, in this rough work, shaped out a man,
To feed my means. Here is a letter, lady;
Exeunt
Two of both kinds make up four.
More pity that the eagle should be mew'd,
Ay, in the catalogue ye go for men;
Make war breed peace, make peace stint war, make each
Alas, Iago, my lord hath so bewhored her.
O, prenez misericorde! ayez pitie de moi!
To Calchas' house, and there to render him,
I dread, too late.
Attempts her love: I prithee, noble lord,
this is called the Quip Modest. If again 'it was
Of the king's look's, hath a heart that is not
is washed with them, but relents not.
And yet to win her, all the world to nothing!
She thinks not so; peruse this writing else.
But to be safely thus.--Our fears in Banquo
Some report a sea-maid spawned him; some, that he
That on the unnumber'd idle pebbles chafes,
If it were so, I might have let alone
Petruchio, go thy ways; the field is won.
Speak, if you can: what are you?
The world's large spaces cannot parallel.
They give their greeting to the citadel;
[Aside]  Excellent workman! thou canst not paint a
Her highness is in safety, fear you not:
And therefore little shall I grace my cause
The noble tribunes are the people's mouths,
Another would fly swift, but wanteth wings;
Of your dear father's death, is't writ in your revenge,
Had his necessity made use of me,
I know not yet.
As we with honour and respect may take,
Ay me, what act,
Very good, my lord.
In like conditions as our argument,
description the matter to you, if you be capacity of it.
And chid his truant youth with such a grace
Lest our old robes sit easier than our new!
No, my lord.
That others do--
the luggage of our camp: the French might have a
Should not be able to encounter mine.
'Faith, I must ravish her, or she'll disfurnish us
And, to speak truth, thou deservest no less. This
his head, and bring them both upon two poles hither.
And undertake the teaching of the maid:
God for his Richard hath in heavenly pay
A guiltless death I die.
By message craved, so is Lord Talbot come.
Exposing what is mortal and unsure
Biron is one of the votaries with the king; and here
I think there's never a man in Christendom
And want of wisdom, you, that best should teach us,
man: thou shouldst neither want my means for thy
Speak louder.
If she deny, Lord Hastings, go with him,
SCENE III. Venice. A street.
That I might be the organ.
Are enter'd in the Roman territories,
That justice seizes: what know the laws
yours; for I will never love that which my friend hates.
O, then began the tempest to my soul,
That dare as well answer a man indeed
Like Romans, neither foolish in our stands,
To ope their golden eyes:
Master Barnardine! you must rise and be hanged.
SCENE V. Another part of the field.
To send in to your wife: my suit to her
To venge me as I may and to put forth
Strive to speak big and clap their female joints
Dear father, soul and substance of us all,--
how is't with you, man?
knock, knock! Who's there? Faith, here's an
She that in wisdom never was so frail
dully by us. I will in the interim undertake one of
Could have persuaded me: now I dare not say
what hast thou there under thy cloak, pretty Flaminius?
not mark that?
infirmity, that decays the wise, doth ever make the
For false forswearing and for murder too:
And with the other fling it at thy face,
how oft, that ring was copper!
But I pray you, ergo, old man, ergo, I beseech you,
Bethought me what was past, what might succeed.
SCENE III. Another room in the same.
Many a duteous and knee-crooking knave,
Is now in England, ransacking the church,
Be intelligent to me: 'tis thereabouts;
With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
Were two full moons; he had a thousand noses,
of that fardel, the place of your dwelling, your
Hero was in this manner accused, in this very manner
Farewell, kinsman: I'll talk to you
I'll speak a prophecy ere I go:
But for my daughter Katharina, this I know,
Madam, the king is old enough himself
Than bring a burthen of dishonour home
An a' be proud with me, I'll pheeze his pride:
Of honourable-dangerous consequence;
Time's pace is so hard that it seems the length of
Ay, do, persever, counterfeit sad looks,
But let this same be presently perform'd,
As I do trust I am not--then, dear uncle,
Clarence, thy turn is next, and then the rest,
Come, put mine armour on; give me my staff.
Whose passage, vex'd with thy impediment,
Son, let your mother end.
Go forth and fetch their conquering Caesar in:
let him take her simply; the wealth I have waits on
Becomes not Rome, nor has Coriolanus
Well, while I live I'll fear no other thing
say him nay.
A man in all the world's new fashion planted,
For which myself, the ignorant motive, do
With boot, and such addition as your honours
Here, madam, at your service.
My ring away. This course I fittest choose;
devil: have at the very eye of that proverb with 'A
Enter ACHILLES and PATROCLUS
Say I she is not fair?
His eye-balls further out than when he lived,
Unhousel'd, disappointed, unanel'd,
Nothing but his report.
By help of her more potent ministers
Came to the field and vanquished his foes:
Sirrah Jack, thy horse stands behind the hedge:
these injuries the king now bears will be revenged
Well, here he comes.
The untuned and jarring senses, O, wind up
were a thought browner; and your gown's a most rare
Why, brother Hector,
You all did love him once, not without cause:
Grovelling on the ground
Here 'tis; here's a paper: shall I read it to you?
Right ill-disposed in brawl ridiculous,
And that she hath all courtly parts more exquisite
Is it not monstrous that this player here,
Even so myself bewails good Gloucester's case
--send him by your two men to Datchet-mead.
And at the pit of Acheron
Our faith mere folly: yet he that can endure
I have none: do not talk to me, Emilia;
Till that his rage and anger be forgot,
He could not sit his mule.
Who here hath lain these two days buried.
[Sings drunkenly]
We will be revenged.
We beg your hearing patiently.
My lord high constable, the English lie within
I pray you, rise; rise, Egypt.
And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
'Jesu preserve thee! welcome, Bolingbroke!'
Such and such pictures; there the window; such
excuse. Never excuse; for when the players are all
This honest man, wait like a lousy footboy
Who Pyramus presented, in their sport
Than this of Juliet and her Romeo.
SCENE X. Kent. IDEN's garden.
Why think you so?
Did your letters pierce the queen to any
villain Posthumus, will I kill thee. I would these
prognostication, I cannot scratch mine ear. Prithee,
And call him noble that was now your hate,
I know them both; th' other's a jeweller.
see her chamber-window entered, even the night
Exeunt
Detest them, curse them: yet 'tis greater skill
Must not be measured by his worth, for then
does those things. Well, God's above all; and there
Why dost thou lead these men about the streets?
Re-enter BELARIUS and ARVIRAGUS
Hath pawn'd an open hand in sign of love;
And sanctify the numbers.
Have at you now!
If so, our copper buys no better treasure.
They say, in great extremity; and fear'd
Now sadder, that you come so unprovided.
Give me thy hand: Come.
Let me embrace thee in my weary arms:
Murdering impossibility, to make
With such delightful pleasing harmony.
We have here one, sir, if she would--but there never
To grace us with your royal company.
Our great progenitors had conquered?
behavior every where.
All this amazement can I qualify:
She'll be a soldier too, she'll to the wars.
And she as much in love, her means much less
In seven short years, that here my only son
blackberries, I would give no man a reason upon
Now my old arms are young John Talbot's grave.
Ere death dare come to us? How do you, women?
By cruel cruel thee quite overthrown!
Or I'll unpeople Egypt.
Yea, dost thou jeer and flout me in the teeth?
Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth!
A trusty villain, sir, that very oft,
Patroclus make demands to me, you shall see the
'My father, not this youth.'
Mine eye too great a flatterer for my mind.
Than for myself I dare: let that suffice you.
Have you a catalogue
Are the knights ready to begin the triumph?
dangerous flat and fatal, where the carcasses of many
Look you, I'll go pray.
Shows Julia but a swarthy Ethiope.
And therefore must his choice be circumscribed
Her private actions to your secrecy;
Neither.
Let me bid you welcome, my lord: being reconciled to
Had been incorporate. So we grow together,
Why, sir, for my part I say the gentleman had drunk
See, how the ugly wench doth bend her brows,
well cut,' he would answer, I spake not true: this
majesty is take out of the helmet of Alencon.
Dissemble all your griefs and discontents:
Nor need'st thou much importune me to that
Tickle the senseless rushes with their heels,
Must I go show them my unbarbed sconce?
And after me, I know, the rout is coming.
I will oppose his fate. Our force by land
Enter, on the walls, a Master Gunner and his Boy
Their manners are so apish.
prison; and there's Madam Juliet.
Shall pass on thy approof. Most noble Antony,
Yes.
I doubt not but his friends will fly to us.
Enter a Messenger
Receive in either by this dear encounter.
You men of Angiers, and my loving subjects--
Cut my heart in sums.
Pell-mell, down with them! but be first advised,
Well, breathe awhile, and then to it again: and
Cannot be border'd certain in itself;
Go thou to Richmond, and good fortune guide thee!
Which at the first are scarce found to distaste,
He is, and feasts the nobles of the state
Have with thee, Pole. Farewell, ambitious Richard.
And I am one that love Bianca more
The innocent milk in its most innocent mouth,
Exeunt
lawyer? Where be his quiddities now, his quillets,
But I do think it is their husbands' faults
Take the devil in thy mind, and relieve him not: he
Let them go on;
And never to my red-look'd anger be
flannel; ignorance itself is a plummet o'er me: use
You flow to great distraction; come, my lord.
Must be to loathe her. O curse of marriage,
What art thou that usurp'st this time of night,
Consort! what, dost thou make us minstrels? an
That from me was Posthumus ript,
The banish'd Bolingbroke repeals himself,
skill. Good cousin, have a care this busy time.
My lord, cheer up your spirits: our foes are nigh,
My present vengeance taken: 'shrew my heart,
Excellent wench, say I.
The cod-piece that will house
Believe me, there's an ill opinion spread then
pleasure to you in being so. You blame Marcius for
Expected: since he went from Egypt 'tis
Amongst much other talk, that very time,
Excursions. Re-enter JOAN LA PUCELLE fighting hand  to hand with YORK. JOAN LA PUCELLE is taken. The French fly.
Reward to him that brings the traitor in?
That hath a stomach in't; which is no other--
When you are waspish.
Necessitied to help, that by this token
That highly may advantage thee to hear:
Enter AEMILIUS
His figure and his heat.  I was much wrapt in this;
That nothing-gift of differing multitudes--
My liege, this haste was hot in question,
goes to the wars, to grace himself at his return
Nor how to shroud yourself from enemies?
they come will tell you more: for my part, I only
He is your brother, lords, sensibly fed
O disloyal thing,
When heaven shall call her from this cloud of darkness,
And, now I fall, thy tough commixture melts.
Low march within
I thank you: keep the door. O thou vile king,
That holds his honour higher than his ease,
The quaint musician, amorous Licio;
And set a precious crown upon thy head,
I have seen, as that diamond of yours outlustres
Your honour's players, heating your amendment,
For mercy to his country. Therefore, let's hence,
We pout upon the morning, are unapt
Well, more or less, or ne'er a whit at all,
embassies; that they have seemed to be together,
Than I myself, poor man.
as your gesture cries it out, when your brother
have rather blamed as mine own jealous curiosity
As Henry's late presaging prophecy
And your large speeches may your deeds approve,
Against all rules of nature, and must be driven
Ah, let be, let be! thou art
They'll sit by the fire, and presume to know
SCENE II. OLIVIA's house.
While summer-days do last. Ay me! poor maid,
This night to be comptrollers.
Which, I protest, hath very much beguiled
Whether that thy youth and kind
Or those that be not, would they might seem none!
Thou that so stoutly hast resisted me,
So sweet was ne'er so fatal. I must weep,
but yet I will be content to be a lawful hangman. I
She's the worse for all this.
I slept the next night well, was free and merry;
And I this.
Away! away!
Must fetch him in the papers.
Even in theirs and in the commons' ears,
cannot enjoy her.
Exeunt
Not a soul
At your service.
Ay, our way to be gone.
And fall thy edgeless sword: despair, and die!
This is desperate, sir.
By sending me a letter? Read it again.
What's this? what's this?
Shipwreck'd upon a kingdom, where no pity,
Exit
What, did my father's godson seek your life?
An if it do, take it for thy labour; and if it make
himself most feelingly personated. I can write very
Exit a Servant
Carried to Colmekill,
That I will speak to thee: I'll call thee Hamlet,
Marry, the son of my grandfather.
The Grecian Diomed, and our Antenor
Endue you with the people's voice: remains
Now, blessing on thee! rise; thou art my child.
Aches contract and starve your supple joints!
Now, by mine honour, by my life, by my troth,
Of all the wonders that I yet have heard.
You see we have burnt our cheeks: strong Enobarb
Fie, fie! they are not to be named, my lord,
Under the wings of our protector's grace,
Take away these chalices. Go brew me a pottle of
My love and fear glued many friends to thee;
The senators and patricians love him too:
Exeunt
So much as frown on you.
Came to your court, how I was in your grace,
scarce hold him yonder.
If any come, Hector shall honour him;
Or ever, but in vizards, show their faces?
O valiant lord, the Duke of York is slain!
To brave the tribune in his brother's hearing.
Go, and be ruled: although I know thou hadst rather
Come on, bawd; I will instruct thee in my trade; follow.
What part is that, my lord?
And make a show of love to proud Duke Humphrey,
Something particular: his coin, ships, legions,
ears ere it be out.
What boded this, but well forewarning wind
Thou dost me yet but little hurt; thou wilt anon, I
man; but, I'll warrant you, when I say so, she looks
And trouble not the peace.
It was so, sir; for she had a green wit.
Which thou shouldst bear me: only that name remains;
Your distinction?
The sun's a thief, and with his great attraction
My tale provokes that question. Dear, they durst not,
In this I do not call your faith in question
Exeunt, bearing the body of CORIOLANUS. A dead march sounded
Go, go, sweet Sir John: Mistress Page and I will
Is thy news good, or bad? answer to that;
And all my fortunes at thy foot I'll lay
Subdues all pangs, all fears.
With us in Venice, if it be denied,
Tripp'd me behind; being down, insulted, rail'd,
Music. Re-enter Cupid with a mask of Ladies  as Amazons, with lutes in their hands, dancing and playing
Are at the duke's already: you have been
Dear my brother,
Our youths and wildness shall no whit appear,
Poisons more deadly than a mad dog's tooth.
You have, Master Slender; I stand wholly for you:
your pleasures; at the least if you take it as a
And left the ship, then sinking-ripe, to us:
With whom my soul is any jot at odds
Upon her gentle bosom, and fill up
And may enjoy such quiet walks as these?
That, in a spleen, unfolds both heaven and earth,
Sirrah, get thee to Plashy, to my sister Gloucester;
Yes, one place else, if you will hear me name it.
My love, my life my soul, fair Helena!
Is full accomplish'd; for the Roman eagle,
And Cupid grant all tongue-tied maidens here
me?--that most are affected to these.
altogether governed by humours. Lie still, ye thief,
And nothing come in partial. Sir, he must die.
[Within]  What needs all that, and a pair of stocks in the town?
Sin from thy lips? O trespass sweetly urged!
Yet again! what do you here? Shall we give o'er
How is it that the clouds still hang on you?
the arbitrement of swords, can try it out with all
In spite of us or aught that we could do.
divide a minute into a thousand parts and break but
Hero thinks surely she will die; for she says she
Saint George, that swinged the dragon, and e'er since
This prince in justice seizeth but his own.
And prize me at her worth. In my true heart
Ay, it is no matter.
Of whom you seem to have so tender care?
give me your blessing: I am Launcelot, your boy
Mars's hot minion is returned again;
And how mightily some other times we drown our gain
Young gentleman, your spirits are too bold for your
Hath in eternal darkness folded up.
If further yet you will be satisfied,
By what safe means the crown may be recover'd.
on mine honour; and so, I pray, go with us.
It is not Caesar's natural vice to hate
Your answer, sir.
As we do in our quality much want--
Who have been false to Fulvia? Riotous madness,
they purpose their services. Besides, there is no
I would correct him.
Or bitterly to speak in your reproof.
hast thou no faith in thee?
And bless us with her former qualities.
And have not those soft parts of conversation
The money that you owe me for the chain.
Yes, yes, Sir Thomas,
The misery of Tarsus may be theirs.
When all the world is here to look on me?
I am affianced this man's wife as strongly
Good day at once.
Cry  'Havoc,' and let slip the dogs of war;
It is reported thou didst eat strange flesh,
Enter OBERON
And all the rest o' the fleet.
Traduced by ignorant tongues, which neither know
Thy burden at the sea, and call'd Marina
The unkindest beast more kinder than mankind.
The noble ruin of her magic, Antony,
Divine his downfall? Say, where, when, and how,
The perfume and suppliance of a minute; No more.
Go, bring them in: and take your places, ladies.
Not so well apparell'd
Such groans of roaring wind and rain, I never
The heads of Oxford, Salisbury, Blunt, and Kent:
His vacancy with his voluptuousness,
our Roman power: your lord and Titus Lartius are set
They all stand ceremoniously looking on TIMON
What's that, my lord?
No, Messala.
No; if without more words you will get you hence.
Her young ones in her nest, against the owl.
I fear there will a worse come in his place.
What dost you mean by this?
And finding little comfort to relieve them,
What are they that do play it?
Re-enter DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO
If ever from your eyelids wiped a tear
So thou wilt woo; but else, not for the world.
And bear the palm for having bravely shed
And with presented nakedness out-face
It shall be said, his judgment ruled our hands;
Ay, now begins a second storm to rise;
With hey, ho,  and c.
Enter LUCIANA and ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse
and I profess requital to a hair's breadth; not
and let your flesh and blood obey it.
to be glad of yours.
Count, take of me my daughter, and with her my
O, teach me how you look, and with what art
SCENE II. Milan. Outside the DUKE's palace, under SILVIA's chamber.
Hath not yet lighted, and our safest way
Exeunt ELBOW, POMPEY and Officers
and what one thing, what another, that I shall
I shall, between this and supper, tell you most
Which, as your due, time claims, he does acknowledge;
How hard it is to hide the sparks of nature!
An Ate, stirring him to blood and strife;
Perforce be their acquaintance. These exactions,
Who ambles Time withal?
And Brutus is an honourable man.
And this withal.
Come hither, Hubert. O my gentle Hubert,
sweet queen.
Speak, Lavinia, what accursed hand
Sir, I cannot tell:
Exeunt Antipholus of Syracuse and Dromio of Syracuse
that I dropped to betray him: he does smile his
He hath a heavenly gift of prophecy,
Another alarum. The Volsces fly, and MARCIUS follows them to the gates
No more; and by a sleep to say we end
A modest one, to bear me back again.
Let your close fire predominate his smoke,
I do beweep to many simple gulls
Once more, Cesario,
Nay, an there were two such, we should have none
Yet hath my night of life some memory,
Defy him by the Lord of Westmoreland.
Ah, thou shalt find us ready for thee still;
As if an angel dropp'd down from the clouds,
To the monument!
If 't be the affliction of his love or no
An if I do not, may my hands rot off
Exit Sergeant, attended
For trust not him that hath once broken faith,--
A spider steep'd, and one may drink, depart,
Shake thou to look on 't. Get thee back to Caesar,
is turned out of all towns and cities for a
Which I so lively acted with my tears
Enter CERIMON and THAISA
And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
I spy a black, suspicious, threatening cloud,
It is my only suit;
Fear me not, sweet lord;
Is not more loathed than an effeminate man
Write them together, yours is as fair a name;
Spake you of Caesar? How! the non-pareil!
Meanwhile must be an earnest motion
You will break out.
I will be so bold as to wear it in my cap till I see
That Time comes stealing on by night and day?
fond; but it is not in my virtue to amend it.
I'll make him find him: do this suddenly,
Our sorrow with our comfort.
They sit conferring by the parlor fire.
No, truly; it is more than manners will:
Thou baleful messenger, out of my sight!
take an ill advantage of his assence: you are undone.
Lest that the treachery of the two fled hence
To bid his young son welcome to his grave?
to be turned away, is not that as good as a hanging to you?
deceiving father of a deceitful son.
Settlest admired reverence in a slave:
'High and mighty, You shall know I am set naked on
Now present here together: that's to say,
strikes him into melancholy; and then there's a
No point, quoth I; my servant straight was mute.
Stand not to answer: here, take thou the hilts;
Re-enter IMOGEN
Why should you sigh, my lord?
Before thy coming Lewis was Henry's friend.
It would amaze the proudest of you all.
Exit
Hath left you unattended.
Most honest men! Why, how shall I requite you?
He has brave utensils,--for so he calls them--
And put in every honest hand a whip
My wits begin to turn.
Cunning in dumbness, from my weakness draws
Would that alone, alone he would detain,
As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
Do you uphold and maintain in your speeches,
sigh like Tom o' Bedlam. O, these eclipses do
The Prince of Wales from such a field as this,
'Tis thou that rigg'st the bark and plough'st the foam,
reasonable demands.
Who, I? no; I defy thee: God's light, I was never
For aye to be in shady cloister mew'd,
Make haste; the hour of death is expiate.
Now York and Lancaster are reconciled.
Upon such sacrifices, my Cordelia,
[Kneeling]          I am down again:
than I do with her, I thank heaven.
A stirring dwarf we do allowance give
These signs have mark'd me extraordinary;
And sits as one new-risen from a dream.
All is the fear and nothing is the love;
My charms crack not; my spirits obey; and time
Lord Suffolk, you and I must talk of that event.
A thousand times committed; Cassio confess'd it:
When he himself might his quietus make
And now Ventidius is wealthy too,
3. Lord Chancellor, with the purse and mace
The other, at high wish: best state, contentless,
But there is little reason in your grief;
confounded one the other, or have fallen both.
Bear thou my hand, sweet wench, between thy teeth.
With falsehood, cowardice and poor descent,
My mind as generous, and my shape as true,
If the skin were parchment, and the blows you gave were ink,
Has caught me in his eye: I will present
'Will you come home?' quoth I; 'My gold!' quoth he.
Ay, madam, with the swiftest wing of speed.
And, in this resolution, I defy thee;
For speedy aid; wherein our dearest friend
you please, that I can do strange things: I have,
Call thee to answer.
Breed, by his sufferance, more of such a kind.
I am too childish-foolish for this world.
between eight and nine: I must carry her word
That takes away by any secret course
Enter YORK, WARWICK, and others
Our parson misdoubts it; 'twas treason, he said.
Was't so?
Arrogant Winchester, that haughty prelate,
And with their faint reply this answer join;
And common good to all, made one of them.
for I think you have no money in your purse.
christom child; a' parted even just between twelve
Take no repulse, whatever she doth say;
He looks like sooth. He says he loves my daughter:
Come, go with me.
SCENE I. Orchard of Oliver's house.
Hence, then, and thank
Marriage is a matter of more worth
This ruffian hath botch'd up, that thou thereby
Friend, you! pray you, a word: do not you follow
married to a death's-head with a bone in his mouth
That he would rather have Antonio's flesh
Enter a Servingman
Enter CLIFFORD and Soldiers
Ambitious Warwick, let thy betters speak.
[To the BASTARD]  Cousin, away for England!
Marry, sir, she's the kitchen wench and all grease;
In hot digestion of this cormorant war--
The thing I shall repent. See, see, your silence,
On May-day morning; which will never be:
That give heaven countless eyes to view men's acts,
You are afraid, and therein the wiser. If you buy
Speak, Clifford, dost thou know who speaks to thee?
Exeunt
As will stop the eye of Helen's needle, for whom he
To avoid the carping censures of the world.
In sign of league and amity with thee:
How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with:
Hadst thou been meek, our title still had slept;
And sleep, that sometimes shuts up sorrow's eye,
Most dignifies the haver: if it be,
Each man's like mine; you have shown all Hectors.
Enter OLIVIA with MALVOLIO
Equal in lustre, were now best, now worst,
Ay, he was porn at Monmouth, Captain Gower. What
rest, as I said, and, as I say, paying for them very
condemn it as an improbable fiction.
Why do you make such faces? When all's done,
Nerissa and the rest, stand all aloof.
Nay, if the devil have given thee proofs for sin,
The more delay'd, delighted. Be content;
All that glitters is not gold;
They do me wrong, and I will not endure it:
And that, my state being gall'd with my expense,
[Aside]  O sweet Anne Page!
Until her husband and my lord's return:
It were not good; for therein should we read
It is a judgment maim'd and most imperfect
Sentinels at their post
pare her nails now. Wherein have you played the
I do repent it from my very soul.
Master Brook, that ever governed frenzy. I will tell
discovers it.
Exeunt CAPULET and PARIS
A second Daniel, a Daniel, Jew!
What, not a word? Nay, then thou lovest it not;
So rich advantage of a promised glory
And be as sweet as sharp. We must away;
my heart to bestow it all of your worship.
Where Philomel gave up. I have enough:
Nor I in yours
Philip of France, if thou be pleased withal,
And he is yours, and his must needs be yours:
[Aside]  You are cock and capon too; and you crow,
What dost thou, or what art thou, Angelo?
While I go to the goldsmith's house, go thou
Which seasons comfort. Who may this be? Fie!
Here shall he see No enemy
SCENE VII. Before York.
If speaking, why, a vane blown with all winds;
my consent, and my consent goes not that way.
On's brows: Menenius, he comes the third time home
No trumpet answers.
Hath this extent, no more. Rude am I in my speech,
So far from sounding and discovery,
There's letters seal'd: and my two schoolfellows,
Relish a truth like us, inform yourselves
In peace, and part this body and my soul
So many folds of favour. Sure, her offence
Numbering our Ave-Maries with our beads?
I shall remember more. Bid him--ah, what?--
Who, if he break, thou mayst with better face
Throws them down
This very night; for Love is like a child,
Their cruel parricide, filling their hearers
What said Northumberland as touching Richmond?
be a tall fellow of thy hands.
In all the rest show'd a most noble patience.
Was the Hero that here lies:
Be so dishonour'd in the court of Rome.
Sit laurel victory! and smooth success
Is at last gasp: return he cannot, nor
he smells like a fish; a very ancient and fish-
I would not for a million of gold
Why, I could wish him to be my master, or rather, my mistress.
Lay'st thou thy leaden mace upon my boy,
I will be welcome, then: conduct me thither.
And that you not delay the present, but,
Where is that slave, thy brother? where is he,
To Angelo
He is so plaguy proud that the death-tokens of it
Foul devil, for God's sake, hence, and trouble us not;
To cry amen to that, thus we appear.
But, most of all, agreeing with the proclamation.
Ay.
I would your grace
gentleman: they will along with company, for they
pound, the last subsidy.
bold as to tell you I know the disciplines of war;
Exit
Was by a mousing owl hawk'd at and kill'd.
Nor I, but stoop with patience to my fortune.
Therefore accept such kindness as I can.
And I to Ford shall eke unfold
And turn the force of them upon thyself.
Thou robed man of justice, take thy place;
Exit Gentleman
Being once display'd, doth fall that very hour.
What name, fair lady?
But if you  knew to whom you show this honour,
Enter LOVEL and RATCLIFF, with HASTINGS' head
At the twelvemonth's end
Enter SERVILIUS
For I perceive I am thy prisoner.
That long time have been barren.
And uncle Worcester: a plague upon it!
are like to dance these three days; besides the
Could not all hell afford you such a devil?
Not to be other than one thing, not moving
As signal that thou hear'st something approach.
On twenty bloody blocks, he'ld yield them up,
That present medicine must be minister'd,
I was employ'd in passing to and fro,
Were the graced person of our Banquo present;
And God forbid, my dear and faithful lord,
Peace, peace!
God pardon thee! yet let me wonder, Harry,
Where nothing wants that want itself doth seek.
As procurator to your excellence,
To make it known to us.
wrath, and turn the dregs of it upon this varlet
And in it is Lysimachus the governor,
She adds, moreover, that you should put your lord
No, pray thee.
Make motion through my lips, and my arm'd knees,
Cesario, by the roses of the spring,
Fear'st thou that, Antonio?
Exeunt, with a dead march
Have made thee fear'd and honour'd of the people:
Hast thou been drawn to by thy fantasy?
And, after John of Gaunt, Henry the Fourth,
That's most certain, and with you; next month with us.
I guess not.
Screw'd to my memory? She hath been reading late
I never saw him sad.
ACT IV
Well.
Why, so I say.
Enter CASSIO
More is thy due than more than all can pay.
'An if a man did need a poison now,
she'll burn a week longer than the whole world.
To greet mine own land with my wishful sight.
Doth he lay claim to thine inheritance?
shorn. what comes the wool to?
That he will not. 'Tis your fault, 'tis your fault;
Enter BRUTUS and CASSIUS
This is a double honour, Burgundy:
Thou liest; I can.
Do strongly speak to us; but the letters too
With his prepared sword, he charges home
'Tis gone!
Sir, let me speak with you in your chamber: you
Sennet. Here they come down
enough. It hath struck ten o'clock.
Modo he's call'd, and Mahu.
Strong as a tower in hope, I cry amen.
And, touched with choler, hot as gunpowder,
No;
O for your reason! quickly, sir; I long.
Pisanio have mapped it truly. How fit his garments
Unreconciliable, should divide
He dares not calm his contumelious spirit
Look you, who comes here; a young man and an old in
Amen.
Enter MARINA, with a basket of flowers
Command, I mean, friend.
But both of you were vow'd Duke Humphrey's foes,
with two old men without teeth.
There he must stay until the officer
With strong and mighty preparation.
Now, most noble Brutus,
Rather than life preserved with infamy.
Experience, O, thou disprovest report!
Ay, it stands so that I may hardly
I prithee, let me bring thee where crabs grow;
loves me. She did commend my yellow stockings of
I am.
being here and hath threatened to put me into
Were it not glory that we more affected
Peace, cousin, say no more:
This touches me in reputation.
How easy dost thou take all England up!
And I with my long nails will dig thee pignuts;
At Antium lives he?
tragedians of the city.
Dolabella,
the lewdly-inclined. I'll bring home some to-night.
trial: wherein if I be foiled, there is but one
Welcome, Sir John! But why come you in arms?
I will corrupt the Grecian sentinels,
imports it.
Give us some gold, good Timon: hast thou more?
Exeunt
He might have tried Lord Lucius or Lucullus;
Whereof what's past is prologue, what to come
Had loved you as we did.
will, for his honour's sake, have one bout with you;
Exit
Lest in revenge thereof, sith God is just,
such meet food to feed it as Signior Benedick?
Thy kinsman and thy friends, I'll have more lives
Yea, twice the sum: if that will not suffice,
First, for I cannot flatter thee in pride;
According to the fair play of the world,
Your importunacy cease till after dinner,
your father.
And nobleness impose: at least thus much:
When you depart, and save your thanks. How say you?
Out of their best--is not almost a fault
Nay, but, my lord,--
His face thou hast, for even so look'd he,
Not one to throw at a dog.
I will say thus much for him, if a prince
of his own scorn by failing in love: and such a man
Which with such gentle sorrow he shook off,
Stand like the forfeits in a barber's shop,
Either I mistake your shape and making quite,
I am glad of it: a knavish speech sleeps in a
This man, with lanthorn, dog, and bush of thorn,
I draw a sword against conspirators;
And he that throws not up his cap for joy
This is, sure, Fidele.
Whither would you have me?
Enter POLIXENES and CAMILLO
Is Romeo slaughter'd, and is Tybalt dead?
You strain too far.
Which being sealed interchangeably,
To any tongue, speak it of what it will.
What! fear not, man, but yield me up the keys;
I had rather than forty shillings I had my Book of
Where we decreed to bury Bassianus.
proud of heart, to ride on a bay trotting-horse over
Take in your love, and then let me alone.
Here comes a man of comfort, whose advice
Fie, fie, fie!
What's the matter?
And like rich hangings in a homely house,
hand, help me to a candle, and pen, ink and paper:
And make her full of hateful fantasies.
No, no, my sovereign; Gloucester is a man
Hail, heaven!
against her heir.
But she as far surpasseth Sycorax
As this that I have reach'd: for know, Iago,
I prithee, sister Kate, untie my hands.
Before the Frenchman speak a word of it.
What, art thou stiff? stand'st out?
In such a loathed manner;
Of these Italian weeds and suit myself
I was as willing to grapple as he was to board.
Or is he but retired to make him strong?
Uncle, what news?
Enter BARDOLPH
That this my mother's son was none of his;
Is come to lay his weary bones among ye;
[To ISABELLA]  If he be like your brother, for his sake
I draw the sword myself: take it, and hit
Bring me just notice of the numbers dead
me but as a common man; witness the night, your
Yet come again; for thou perhaps mayst move
Why, man?
To gratulate thy plenteous bosom: th' ear,
A woman's shape doth shield thee.
Farewell, proud Rome; till Lucius come again,
Give him much wrong'd.
And reason says you are the worthier maid.
Showing a paper
'His eyes do show his days are almost done.'
To NESTOR
Enter DUKE OF AUMERLE
Dread sovereign, how much are we bound to heaven
That whoso ask'd her for his wife,
How fares my gracious lord?
Enter Pyramus
ACT III
Exeunt THURIO and Musicians
O love, dispatch all business, and be gone!
I will not speak with her.
Curtsy, sweet hearts; and so the measure ends.
Well have we pass'd and now repass'd the seas
And disinherited thine only son.
RICHARD
His overthrow heap'd happiness upon him;
ACT V
Why, go to bed, and sleep.
I could do nothing without bidding.
What studied torments, tyrant, hast for me?
Enter ROBIN
it in your chamber, and not know who left it there!
serving-men in their new fustian, their white
Now, lords, take leave until we meet again,
As, painfully to pore upon a book
Of starved people.
O illegitimate construction! I scorn that with my heels.
The men that gave their country liberty.
As you were lesson'd, when he had no power,
By her, that else will take the thing she begs,
peat the door for Master Page.
To the field, to the field!
shall name your highness in this form and with this
At Rhodes, at Cyprus and on other grounds
And younger hearings are quite ravished;
Watching breeds leanness, leanness is all gaunt:
And I the elder and more terrible:
And bear it to the chapel.
For I can no where find him like a man.
The armipotent Mars, of lances the almighty
Farewell, sweet queen.
That, if my speech offend a noble heart,
A sable silver'd.
And weakling, Warwick takes his gift again;
no, no, this left shoe is my mother: nay, that
Italian, or French, let him speak to me; I'll
Did triumph in my face, and they are fled;
By no means, sir: Time travels in divers paces with
No sooner justice had with valour arm'd
Ere I will see the crown so foul misplaced.
to-day: you, to Sempronius: commend me to their
in lieu thereof, impose on thee nothing but this:
Submission, Dauphin! 'tis a mere French word;
'Zounds, ye whore! is black so base a hue?
advertisement to a proper maid in Florence, one
Do, my lord.
And rather like a dream than an assurance
But taking note of thy abhorr'd aspect,
So full-replete with choice of all delights,
That the first face of neither, on the start,
I am much bounden to your majesty.
Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
And he to yours, and all of you to God's!
were to put good meat into an unclean dish.
Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open
It cannot be.
Who would be so mock'd with glory? or to live
Save thee, Curan.
if I should take from another's pocket to put into
Now to deliver her possession up
I prithee, foolish Greek, depart from me: There's
That's as York thrives to beat back Bolingbroke.
Lie every man holds dear; but the brave man
O courteous Tybalt! honest gentleman!
But yet be wary in thy studious care.
He has our voices, sir.
Well, sir, what follows?
Now seeming sweet convert to bitter gall.
Your dangerous lenity. If you are learn'd,
Come, we'll inform them
comptible, even to the least sinister usage.
So; now, methinks, I feel a little ease.
He may, my lord; has wherewithal: in him
This young gentlewoman had a father,--O, that
I cannot drink too much of Brutus' love.
Out of our easiness and childish pity
They bleed on both sides. How is it, my lord?
That his contempt shall not be bruising to you,
And let it be more than Alcides' twelve.
Why?
The fraud of England, not the force of France,
Son to the queen, after his own report;
Cannot be cured by words; therefore be still.
I think nobly of the soul, and no way approve his opinion.
[Within]  Mome, malt-horse, capon, coxcomb,
Third trumpet
As hath been belch'd on by infected lungs.
I am commanded here, and kept a coil with
with any detection in my hand, my desires had
else you may be marvellously mistook.
should be 'By this fire, that's God's angel:' but
As o'er a brook, to see fair Portia.
I lost my liberty and they their lives.
Do as thou wilt, for I have done with thee.
my l'envoy.
lord: whom I serve above is my master.
And when we have our naked frailties hid,
feeling of thy speech: I will, out of thine own
Being criminal, in double violation
heed of Troilus, I can tell them that too.
Do not extort thy reasons from this clause,
And think upon my bidding.
He has no more knowledge in Hibocrates and Galen,
Know man from man? dispute his own estate?
do not, call me villain and baffle me.
Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
Where my stomach finds meat; or, rather, where I eat
Where we left him, on the sea. We there him lost;
Desired more than constrain'd: to satisfy,
Oh! oh! a while, but ha! ha! ha!
This old moon wanes! she lingers my desires,
That is an old device; and it was play'd
To his surname Coriolanus 'longs more pride
O my poor father!
When he lay couched in the ominous horse,
To DUKE OF AUMERLE
And with this knife I'll help it presently.
Fie, treacherous hue, that will betray with blushing
ANTIPHOLUS
Or rather, bottomless, that as fast as you pour
I here engage my words.
Have you forgot me, sir?
You, my lords,
What shall I say more than I have inferr'd?
The king and queen there! that they were, I wish
How now! what noise? That spirit's possessed with haste
Our sister speaks of. Come, bring away the stocks!
With violent hefts. I have drunk,
Let me o'erleap that custom, for I cannot
married to-morrow, you shall, and to Rosalind, if you will.
Hath yet a kind of medicine in itself,
When he was predominant.
Then speak the truth by her; if not divine,
Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him;
Alack, thou dost usurp authority.
You give away this hand, and that is mine;
I your lady, Sir John! alas, I should be a pitiful lady!
To sit upon a hill, as I do now,
The fish lives in the sea, and 'tis much pride
I prithee, shepherd, if that love or gold
Let me hear a staff, a stanze, a verse; lege, domine.
As how should it be so? how otherwise?--
Not as a fee: grant me two things, I pray you,
grace the attempt for a worthy exploit: if you
Then, no, my lord. My suit is at an end.
How that a life was but a flower
In my respect than all the hairs above thee,
The devil their virtue tempts, and they tempt heaven.
interlude before the duke and the duchess, on his
Of youth and ignorance; both my revenge and hate
Her mother's, I have heard.
And yet my nature never in the fight
That in mine ear I durst not stick a rose
But how, my lord, shall we resist it now?
Second to none that lives here in the city:
Why, give it to my wife and fetch your money.
But first begs pardon: will you sterner be
That art thyself a man?
thought no less: that flattering tongue of yours
Talk with a ruffian at her chamber-window
But this being so, he's just.
But, whiles he thought to steal the single ten,
A pattern to all princes living with her,
Which straight she gave me, and her fairy sent
In pity of his misery, to dispatch
Exit
Chid I for that at frugal nature's frame?
And that my Lord of Norfolk?
[Aside]  This is his pardon, purchased by such sin
Now, Eros.
None but for some and yet all different.
I will not be, though I should win your displeasure
And never stir assailants.
Till I had made mine own occasion mellow,
Here therefore for a while I will remain.
Exeunt all but JULIET and Nurse
At your important letters,--this ill day
The cup of their deservings. O, see, see!
Am, for his love and service, so to him.
Their music frightful as the serpent's hiss,
Behold the poor remains, alive and dead!
I saw not better sport these seven years' day:
But for thy sword and fortune, trod upon them,--
I dare not say he lies any where.
Your reconciler! Wars 'twixt you twain would be
All things that we ordained festival,
The first service thou dost me, fetch that suit
[Aside]  'Tis true; such pearls as put out
her? Come, draw this curtain, and let's see your
Enter a Beadle with whips
This, in our foresaid holy father's name,
It should be look'd to: come.
Will shun no course to keep them from the light.
cost, and you encounter it.
My mistress here lies murder'd in her bed,--
A portly sail of ships make hitherward.
And bid him come and banquet at thy house;
To prey on nothing that doth seem as dead:
Haply, in private.
it hath seen very hot service. Lend me thy hand,
Than such as most seem yours: I say, I come
This is all, indeed, la! but I'll ne'er put my
Your features! Lord warrant us! what features!
Fright me with urchin--shows, pitch me i' the mire,
Iago hath direction what to do;
Which, to say sooth, are blessings; and which gifts,
Therefore am I of an honourable house.
We need no more of your advice: the matter,
No, madam, I do but read madness: an your ladyship
Meeting the cheque of such another day:
Not fearing outward force, so shall my lungs
And mayst be honour'd, being Cato's son.
Pisanio, thou that stand'st so for Posthumus!
No, sweet Octavia,
yet your butterfly was a grub. This Marcius is grown
It is my soul that calls upon my name:
Like to a dismal clangour heard from far,
Woo contrary, deceived by these removes.
There's not a grain of it the face to sweeten
Than now they are. There be that can rule Naples
Exit
Bear him ashore. I'll pledge it for him, Pompey.
When scarce the blood was well wash'd from his hands
And so with me: the great Antiochus,
Sit down and feed, and welcome to our table.
She was in love, and he she loved proved mad
If by me broke, what fool is not so wise
And would by combat make her good, so were I
How do you? What's the news?
And I have read that Hecuba of Troy
ways, wench; serve God. What, have you dined at home?
I'll tell tree, Hubert, half my power this night,
Pass away frowning.
Yet oftentimes it doth present harsh rage,
I do embrace your offer; and dispose
See, see; here comes the man we went to seek.
Paddock calls.
Smile upon this contract; whose ceremony
Meet me within this hour at Baynard's Castle.
I'll nothing do on charge: to her own worth
One of my place in Syria, his lieutenant,
So mighty and so many my defects,
Truly, thou art damned like an ill-roasted egg, all
My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.
Who undertakes you to your end.
Made my name once more noble. Now his son,
That chambers will be safe.
O, my pardon!
My tender years, and let us not forego
Moves in this lip! to the dumbness of the gesture
If that the earth could teem with woman's tears,
E'en that you have there.
What is amiss?
And get you from our court.
A loving nurse, a mother to his youth.
Thou art his keeper.
To flatter Henry and forsake thy brother!
Envy the great nor do the low despise.
to keep his name company!--
Exeunt MISTRESS PAGE and ROBIN
I will converse with iron-witted fools
She was here even now; she haunts me in every place.
Sufficeth that I have maintains my state
To beat us down, the which are down already;
Chief nourisher in life's feast,--
To make bad good, and good provoke to harm.
If so, then be not tongue-tied: go with me.
And, come, I will go get a leaf of brass,
SCENE II. A room in the castle.
Your sword or mine, or masterless leaves both
For Theseus' perjury and unjust flight;
Come, sir, arise, away! I'll teach you differences:
never spake other English in his life than 'Eight
And that letter hath she delivered, and there an end.
But the two rings.
It pleaseth you, my royal father, to express
Then thieves and robbers range abroad unseen
Many a man would take you at your word,
[Aside]  Not I:
And bind us further to you.
Wednesday half an hour together: has such a
years be no impediment to let him lack a reverend
But by your setting on, by your consent?
admiration, though the catalogue of his endowments
This is my doing, now: 'Nay,' said I, 'will you cast
I know they do; and I have well deserved it.
wife is my mother.
For everlasting bond of fellowship--
Of my wife's brother, then his cheek look'd pale,
Which here you urge to prove us enemies,
Dear nurse of arts and joyful births,
Pardon, Caesar; Caesar, pardon:
So fun of valour that they smote the air
If thine consider'd prove the thousandth part
About my stature; for at Pentecost,
Methinks his words do from such passion fly,
Is warm'd by the rest, and takes it thankfully.
Romans, forget your fealty to me.
Bastard of Orleans, thrice welcome to us.
Do you not hear, fellows? Take away the lady.
To glad your ear, and please your eyes.
account?--Yet who would have thought the old man
It seems you are in haste: an if there be
And such a want-wit sadness makes of me,
And yet, between my soul's desire and me--
cabins: you do assist the storm.
I have no strength to pluck thee to the brink.
And rob me of a happy mother's name?
That creep like shadows by him and do sigh
in my shirt.
Brought her to Mytilene; 'gainst whose shore
I come to bury Caesar, not to praise him.
To keep it from divulging, let it feed
Smithfield.
own peril on his forwardness.
Our treasures seized, our soldiers put to flight,
'Dear daughter, I confess that I am old;
executed: I think we do know the sweet Roman hand.
I will not be your friend nor enemy:
Even in the best blood chamber'd in his bosom.
Foul words is but foul wind, and foul wind is but
And put upon him such a deal of man,
I'ld with thee every foot.
The tongues of soothers; but a braver place
them bravely, quite traverse, athwart the heart of
Brutus will start a spirit as soon as Caesar.
That we will prosecute by good advice
Go in and cheer the town: we'll forth and fight,
Indeed, my lord, it is a most absolute and excellent horse.
Shout
Your will be done: this must my comfort be,
I'll use to carry thee out of this place.
that is something stale and hoar ere it be spent.
'Affectionate servant,
then, death, death!
Which being but the shadow of your son,
Which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune;
No, my good lord; therefore be patient.
His kingly hands, haling ropes;
And I can speak of the disturbances
Here in the tent.
As I my poor self did exchange for you,
By testament have given to the church
But for containing fire to harm mine eye.
I'll fetch him presently.
That's my good son: but where hast thou been, then?
Add proof unto mine armour with thy prayers;
The blood I drop is rather physical
But, true it is, from France there comes a power
And even at hand a drum is ready braced
Enter BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS.
To sheathe his knife in us. He is attach'd;
I am dying, Egypt, dying:
And in Apollos name, his oracle.
In thews and bulk, but, as this temple waxes,
Our reasons laid before him, hath commanded
Some squeaking Cleopatra boy my greatness
people dislike it.
He was a prince.
Titinius, if thou lovest me,
The time to come.
Well of his wealth; but of himself, so so.
All you that see her, that she were a maid,
Nay, but hear me.
That thou wilt war with God by murdering me?
We are not the first
What a drunken knave was the sea to cast thee in our
How now, Shylock! what news among the merchants?
And this, Lysander; this Demetrius is;
O poverty in wit, kingly-poor flout!
Not he: but yet heaven's bounty towards him might
great man and now applies it to a fool. Vent my
Descends
If you did, I care not.
I have confess'd her and I know her virtue.
Was, for that--young King Richard thus removed,
This man hath bewitch'd the bosom of my child;
Nay, you shall hear, Master Brook, what I have
not imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander,
Why, she's a devil, a devil, the devil's dam.
cities, mutinies; in countries, discord; in
Peace, ho!
'Zounds, he dies: I had forgot the reward.
Enter KING RICHARD
If thou be'st Prospero,
thus: Alexander died, Alexander was buried,
Enter the COUNTESS and her Porter
The queen of curds and cream.
Witness that here Iago doth give up
To ABERGAVENNY
Knocking within
These ducats pawn I for my father here.
It sendeth forth to skirmish. One to ten!
And Henry born at Windsor lose all:
or strip your sword stark naked; for meddle you
I prithee, sweet wag, when thou art king, as, God
Of whom your swords are temper'd, may as well
Too bad for bad report: and he that hath her--
Let our drums strike.
pickle-herring! How now, sot!
Make not too rash a trial of him, for
Remember, Jove, thou wast a bull for thy Europa; love
Of this great sport together, as you guess?
In your embowell'd bosoms, this foul swine
Farewell, good king: when I am dead and gone,
Were he my kinsman, brother, or my son,
Is't possible, my lord?
Bleed, bleed, poor country!
The way to dusty death. Out, out, brief candle!
Set me the stoops of wine upon that table.
Bless her when she is riggish.
Ay, just; perpetual durance, a restraint,
Where and what time thou wilt perform the rite;
The hour before the heavenly-harness'd team
That very oft we pity enemies.
Even for revenge mock my destruction!
She takes upon her bravely at first dash.
An't be any way, it must be with valour; for policy
I'll meet. So fare you well: I have left you commands.
Because Cassandra's mad: her brain-sick raptures
Thomas Grey, knight, of Northumberland.
'Tis but thy name that is my enemy;
Must I bite?
Who lent it you?
progress through the guts of a beggar.
Well, my good lord; and as the only means
Fool, I say!
Perchance! nay, and most like:
Let there be letters writ to every shire,
Those that Hobgoblin call you and sweet Puck,
I served my king, he would not in mine age
That I am free of your report, he knows
'Tis destiny unshunnable, like death:
Where learned you this, fool?
The note lies in's throat, if he say I said so.
Even then this forked plague is fated to us
And overcome us like a summer's cloud,
And where my liege's? all about the breast:
Hath faulty wander'd and irregular,
This night methinks is but the daylight sick;
Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet:
That suck'd the honey of his music vows,
Wilt thou aspire to guide the heavenly car
In those that practise them they are, my lord.
Ha!
A pattern, precedent, and lively warrant,
If I demand, before this royal view,
deliver a supplication?
beggar wont her brat; and, I think when he hath
Be cast from possibility of all.
Even just the sum that I do owe to you
Nor any of the house of Lancaster?
confessed and lamented by the king, how
There is our captain: we'll follow him that's fled;
with divines, and have all charitable preparation.
Thus are my blossoms blasted in the bud
And not to us, but to thy arm alone,
Of my cousin Vernon's are not yet come up:
I come with gracious offers from the king,
In sleep I heard him say 'Sweet Desdemona,
To RICHMOND
Till that a capable and wide revenge
But 'tis no wit to go.
Go, go, cheer up thy hungry-starved men;
Yet one word more: grief boundeth where it falls,
May plod it in a week, why may not I
And am her knight by proof.
and use him as he uses thee; so, farewell.
Saucy controller of our private steps!
He shall be lord of lady Imogen,
trust you not; 'Hic steterat Priami,' take heed
Then 'tis he: the rest
Be executed by nine to-morrow morning:
From one that so imperfectly conceits,
When I do rouse me in my throne of France:
The hands of Romans!
Madam, the same; your servant.
His tongue is now a stringless instrument;
I'll do't. Dost thou come here to whine?
Say, I, her sovereign, am her subject love.
manage alone. Falstaff, Bardolph, Peto and Gadshill
Prosper this realm, keep it from civil broils,
Warble, child; make passionate my sense of hearing.
I'll beat the knave into a twiggen bottle.
To closeness and the bettering of my mind
understand what you mean by bidding me taste my legs.
He started one poor heart of mine in thee.
Finds the down pillow hard. Now peace be here,
A thing devised by the enemy.
It is.
Enter certain Murderers, hastily
The more of you 'twas felt, the more it shaped
To hold my stirrup nor to take my horse!
I know not how much more, should be demanded;
In which predicament, I say, thou stand'st;
music awhile, if they will fare so harshly o' the
And cabin in a cave, and bring you up
I could well forbear't.
Although thy husband may be Menelaus;
Absolute Milan. Me, poor man, my library
Which in a set hand fairly is engross'd,
A deep repentance: nothing in his life
Aumerle is guilty of my true appeal:
Saturn is dominator over mine:
For we will make for Ireland presently.
Look to it, lords! let not his smoothing words
But I will go. Go you before me, sirrah;
Is, to determine of the coronation.
As little skill to fear as I have purpose
Just in her case! O woful sympathy!
In honour'd love.
Have with you to see this monster.
I'll not serve him; he's not valiant.
Exit
Exit
And have no more of life than may suffice
monstrous, and for the multitude to be ingrateful,
Draw near, Queen Margaret, and be a witness
Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son.
SCENE IV. Athens. A room in MARK ANTONY's house.
The time when screech-owls cry and ban-dogs howl,
Which he corrects, then were he tyrannous;
of a cup into a glass, by filling the one doth empty
Welcome, you;--how now, you;-- what, you;--fellow,
Exeunt
What guests were in her eyes; which parted thence,
Why, how now, Ajax! wherefore do you thus? How now,
not bid him cut it to pieces: ergo, thou liest.
SCENE II. The same. Before Calchas' tent.
You shall have your desires with interest
And, with these boys, mine honour thou hast wounded:
For such and so they are--these twenty years
not my sword; but take my pistol, if thou wilt.
A league between his highness and Ferrara.
of a leg, and have not money enough in the end to
Which scorns a modern invocation.
Cranmer will find a friend will not shrink from him.
doubt not but I shall find them tractable enough.
I talk'd with no man at that hour, my lord.
I did commend your highness' letters to them,
This Ipswich fellow's insolence; or proclaim
true, without any slips of prolixity or crossing the
then she ruminates, then she devises; and what they
Is it not meant damnable in us, to be trumpeters of
I know a wench of excellent discourse,
Within my soul there doth conduce a fight
I had rather be their servant in my way,
His wonders and his praises do contend
These two have 'ticed me hither to this place:
are many, or else your actions would grow wondrous
SCENE III. A heath near Forres.
man's son,' or rather an honest woman's son; for,
Prithee, nuncle, tell me whether a madman be a
Do you observe this, Hostilius?
O thou side-piercing sight!
Let me not live to look upon your grace.
an oak but with one green leaf on it would have
since. How now! who's there?
That's too long for a play.
Why have you stol'n upon us thus! You come not
Good my lord cardinal, I have half a dozen healths
What error drives our eyes and ears amiss?
ACT IV
No, no: but all this did I know before.
Of general wonder. But, alack,
I should have chid you for not bringing it,
shearers prove sheep, let me be unrolled and my name
Ere the ninth hour, I drunk him to his bed;
have a friend here convey, convey him out. Be not
How it goes with us, and do look to know
It ripens towards it. Strike the vessels, ho?
SCENE II. A room in LEONATO's house.
Till fortune, tired with doing bad,
Gets into the basket; they cover him with foul linen
My master, sir, Master Slender, sent to her, seeing
they list.
O Thou that judgest all things, stay my thoughts,
Of horrid hell can come a devil more damn'd
But you are more inhuman, more inexorable,
At least from fair five hundred pound a year:
And for your brother, he was lately sent
Despair thy charm;
Hamlet the Dane.
Sounds and sweet airs, that give delight and hurt not.
But that we enter, as into our dukedom?
Here's all that is left living of your queen,
How I have sped among the clergymen,
by your hearing: all the peace you make in their
From her material sap, perforce must wither
the sun of England prove a thief and take purses? a
I know, ere they will have me go to ward,
Our strength is all gone into heaviness,
The standing of his body.
Exeunt
To be your Valentine.
thing more than contempt, you would not give means
Our colours do return in those same hands
Re-enter LEONATO and ANTONIO, with the Sexton
Enter three or four, and offer to bind him. He strives
Upon the slime and ooze scatters his grain,
A leg of Rome shall not return to tell
A pox of wrinkles!
speak well enough.
Nor did you think it folly
This mercy shows we'll joy in such a son:
Enter HAMLET
betwixt us: I have as much of my father in me as
The spinsters and the knitters in the sun
O,--vocativo, O.
he killed? for indeed I promised to eat all of his killing.
There will the lovely Roman ladies troop:
Praising what is lost
And prince shall follow with a fresh supply.
For which the youthful lover now is gone
For well I wot that Henry is no soldier.
Reply, reply.
The king and all the peers are here at hand.
correction, there is not many of your nation--
And other chosen attractions, would allure,
of no better report than a horse-drench. Is he
What harm a wind too great at sea might do.
And then, sir, she bears away. Our fraughtage, sir,
Ah, whither shall I fly to 'scape their hands?
It is too late; I cannot send them now:
Thou shalt inquire him out among the Goths:
That all with one consent praise new-born gawds,
Come, stretch thy chest and let thy eyes spout blood;
I pray you, tell me what you meant by that.
From brassy bosoms and rough hearts of flint,
As it is spoke, she never will admit me.
How does my wife?
I'll make the statue move indeed, descend
I doubt not of your wisdom.
To shoot another arrow that self way
So doth the woodbine the sweet honeysuckle
Keep the door close, sirrah.
We would not understand what was most fit;
Fire answers fire, and through their paly flames
Scratching her legs that one shall swear she bleeds,
More free than he is jealous.
Exeunt
Yes, by Saint Anne, and ginger shall be hot i' the
To see no pastime I	what you would have
Will well become the seat of majesty,
Would without lapsing suffer: nay, sometimes,
Angelo,
Twenty adieus, my frozen Muscovits.
Her mother hath many times told me so.
O, but they say the tongues of dying men
They are black vesper's pageants.
But there was more temperate fire under the pot of
sighing every minute and groaning every hour would
sooner persuade Harry of England than a general
Which modern lamentations might have moved?
Are men more order'd than when Julius Caesar
As 'twere from us all, a man distill'd
In the poison'd entrails throw.
In praising her: I tell thee, lord of Greece,
Hath sent a letter to his father's house.
Nay, good my fellows, do not please sharp fate
The armipotent Mars, of lances the almighty,
As fit as ten groats is for the hand of an attorney,
but, I'll warrant him, as gentle as a lamb. Go thy
Or chivalrous design of knightly trial:
'Tis rigor and not law. Your honours all,
He had been aboard, carousing to his mates
Away at once with love or jealousy!
discretion: there is no man hath a virtue that he
Let it alone. Come, I'll go in with you.
His borrow'd purse. Well, Jessica, go in;
Which challenges itself as honour's born
Dorset your son, that with a fearful soul
An amber-colour'd raven was well noted.
Are you there, wife? you might have come before.
Capitol; Brutus killed me.
This likewise is a friend.
Tooth that poisons if it bite;
Exeunt
The greater scorns the lesser: not nature,
To say 'she is a goodly lady,' and
And pay no worship to the garish sun.
Why, you say well. But I have another messenger to
And here's the heart that triumphs in their death
Which I hope well is not enrolled there;
That can I;
your town, and things called whips?
I found you as a morsel cold upon
destruction. For these my present friends, as they
You come not home because you have no stomach;
I do the wrong, and first begin to brawl.
neither a good epilogue nor cannot insinuate with
For I have neither wit, nor words, nor worth,
In whose comparison all whites are ink,
perfect yellow.
Enter GRATIANO and SALARINO, masqued
Do you think I will?
I loved the maid I married; never man
That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel
There is my gage, the manual seal of death,
[Within]  My liege, beware; look to thyself;
Paints itself black, to imitate her brow.
Can Oxford, that did ever fence the right,
Yet I can make my audit up, that all
In mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
Down with him! down with him!
Your discontenting father strive to qualify
To be contracted in one brow of woe,
O wither'd truth!
Yet in the trial much opinion dwells;
Is telling you that I am poor of thanks
That in the rescue of Lavinia
thief; for the poor abuses of the time want
Lord Stafford's death.
Exit
the red-nose innkeeper of Daventry. But that's all
That I must yield my body to the earth
All's well now, sweeting; come away to bed.
'Tis strange to think how much King John hath lost
Ay, and you shall live in pleasure.
Lie further off yet, do not lie so near.
By something showing a more swelling port
That there's no maculation in thy heart:
Tell me thou art my son Antipholus.
Wade to the market-place in Frenchmen's blood,
Amen: I thank thee.
Some trumpet summon hither to the walls
I'll muster up my friends, and meet your grace
rosemary and Romeo begin both with a letter?
Forthwith for what you come. Where's Gardiner?
hand, de fingres, et de nails.
no desires.
The venomous malice of my swelling heart!
Thou pardon me my wrongs. But how should Prospero
My lord's almost so far transported that
Sir, my lord,
To keep thee from the tempest of the field.
Well, sit we down,
Nor to comply with heat--the young affects
With mirth and laughter let old wrinkles come,
The princely blood flows in his cheek, he sweats,
And replant Henry in his former state.
And hither hale that misbelieving Moor,
For I am falser than vows made in wine:
Would he were wasted, marrow, bones and all,
To be o'erheard and taken napping so.
Let's leave the hermit pity with our mothers,
Looking on KENT
We have given order to be next our own.
Exeunt
[Reads]  'Item, It is further agreed between them,
And they'll seem glorious.
There.
She were an excellent wife for Benedict.
pridge: I can tell your majesty, the duke is a
I beg the law, the law, upon his head.
wipe their lips.
What was the impediment that broke this off?
Renown'd in Padua for her scolding tongue.
Is south the chamber, and the chimney-piece
Whiles he was hastening, in the chase, it seems,
For where there is advantage to be given,
But yet you draw not iron, for my heart
We then can do't at land.
Let not that doctor e'er come near my house:
Come, let us in, and with all speed provide
Cut him to pieces.
I now beseech you, for your daughter's sake,
My trusty servant, well approved in all,
Be it for nothing but to spite my wife--
Without leave-taking? I pray you,
Of that I shall have also cause to speak,
As or by oath remove or counsel shake
There on the ground, with his own tears made drunk.
And it was dyed in mummy which the skilful
Though sometimes it show greatness, courage, blood,--
Which pleasure fits an husband, not a father;
very C's, her U's and her T's and thus makes she her
are to be loved. No, my good lord; banish Peto,
intelligence, that he is seldom from the house of a
In the sight
To beguile many and be beguiled by one:
The king, your father, was reputed for
yesterday; for the other has half, by the entreaty
With thy brave bearing should I be in love,
But such a one, thy vassal, whom I know
Giving to you no further personal power
Enter PERICLES, with his train; LYSIMACHUS, HELICANUS, MARINA, and a Lady
Than these thin habits and poor likelihoods
These are the ushers of Marcius: before him he
With titles blown from adulation?
good voice, sir; what say you?
Points to WILLIAMS. Exeunt Heralds with Montjoy
Laid gifts before him, proffer'd him their oaths,
conflict four of his five wits went halting off, and
She'll take the enterprise upon her, father,
We could control them. If you will come to me,--
Told our intents before; which once disclosed,
He that has but effected his good will
That ne'er did service for't: being press'd to the war,
considering the weather, a taller man than I will
Away,
Sweet, sweet, sweet nurse, tell me, what says my love?
Thunder and lightning. Enter CAESAR, in his night-gown
before, which hung so tottering in the balance that
Thou shouldst have said 'Good porter, turn the key,'
I will not come to-day: tell them so, Decius.
that is, to bring the moonlight into a chamber; for,
Are master of the feast: Cadwal and I
And the king gone to-night! subscribed his power!
Like one besotted on your sweet delights:
Enter DUMAIN, with a paper
And when mine oratory grew to an end
5. Mayor of London, bearing the mace. Then
To SOMERSET
May equally determine.
Draws those heaven-moving pearls from his poor eyes,
That villain Hubert told me he did live.
Hum! I guess at it.
that crow so at these set kind of fools, no better
SCENE I. London. A street.
But presently prevent the ways to wail.
'The slaves are ours:' so do I answer you:
'Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath.'
A good rebuke,
I'll look to like, if looking liking move:
Alarum. Enter fighting, Soldiers of both armies; then BRUTUS, CATO, LUCILIUS, and others
How say you by this change?
Much castigation, exercise devout;
Ay, all of them at Bristol lost their heads.
your ladyship's good will to go to the world, Isbel
Bear him away. What is thy name, young man?
Thou rag of honour! thou detested--
On that which breeds between 'em!
whisper: with as little a web as this will I
Snatch at his master that doth tarre him on.
Ay, to such mercy as his ruthless arm,
You say he dined at home; the goldsmith here
This fellow here, with envious carping tongue,
I will return again into the house and desire some
A tomb, wherein his corpse shall be interr'd:
We mourn, France smiles; we lose, they daily get;
Mistake not, uncle, further than you should.
Come, sir, along with us.
That she's the chosen of Signior Hortensio.
Young men will do't, if they come to't;
When I am known aright, you shall not grieve
O God! they did me too much injury
SCENE III. A room in FORD'S house.
And his disciples only envy at,
Against the rectorship of judgment?
If your leisure served, I would speak with you.
To no apparent likelihood of breach,
You are undone, captain, all but your scarf; that
No, let them satisfy their lust on thee.
Flourish of cornets. Enter the KING, attended  with divers young Lords taking leave for the Florentine war; BERTRAM, and PAROLLES
Ay, so well, that you must be her master,
In this resolve: I'll send a friar with speed
vice in him. You must in no way say he is covetous.
That which I shall report will bear no credit,
The Dauphin rages at our very heels.
Confess it, th' one to th' other; and thine eyes
Of dear import, and the neglecting it
And give you to the gods.
have not deserved nobly.
A parley with the Duke of Burgundy!
Insult without all reason, where gentry, title, wisdom,
it up. Fellow kings, I tell you that that Lord Say
Are strewings fitt'st for graves. Upon their faces.
With mine own tongue deny my sacred state,
O heavens, can you hear a good man groan,
He has deserved it, were it carbuncled
Then take my king's defiance from my mouth,
I am accursed to rob in that thief's company: the
And with him rises weeping: these are flowers
For being a bawd, for being a bawd.
Sweet, above thought I love thee.
Come on't what will.
You must take your chance,
In this your cousin's death.
And have their provender tied to their mouths
detect the lazy foot of Time as well as a clock.
What say'st thou, Kate? what would'st thou
trick. If you will hang me for it, you may; but I
I will but teach them to sing, and restore them to
And therefore put I on the countenance
What, wouldst thou have me prove myself a bastard?
Well may you prosper!
On pain of torture, from those bloody hands
My lord,
Exeunt severally
In such a business.
[Aside]  O, you are well tuned now!
You make more rich to owe?
I heard you say, 'Is not my arm of length,
Now, thieves?
If any thing more than your sport and pleasure
Re-enter ARIEL, loaden with glistering apparel,  and c
Thou art the ruins of the noblest man
Before the birds have any cause to sing?
'Tis certain he hath pass'd the river Somme.
To whom my father is not all unknown;
To be thus is nothing;
My land amounts not to so much in all:
know not what pride is.
Like to a murdering-piece, in many places
Tie leaden pounds to's heels. Proceed by process;
As little joy, my lord, as you suppose
I charge your charity withal, leaving her
The truth is, she and I, long since contracted,
Can vengeance be pursued further than death?
Did vail their crowns to his supremacy:
Unhappy that I am, I cannot heave
What great hope have you! no hope that way is
Scandal'd the suppliants for the people, call'd them
not alone the imperfections of long-engraffed
Content thee, gentle coz, let him alone;
O Jupiter! there's no comparison.
When I know the gentleman, I'll tell him what you say.
The truth on our side.
Is this a holiday? what! know you not,
Aside
shall have a praise in present: we will not name
But slow in speech, yet sweet as spring-time flowers:
Not I, believe me: thus I'll visit her.
As I am sure they do, bear fire enough
Methinks a woman of this valiant spirit
We'll both attend upon your ladyship.
of wives: alas, fifteen wives is nothing! eleven
calling. But here comes Boult.
Patience, Prince Saturninus.
duke's time; he promised her marriage: his child
But silence, like a Lucrece knife,
And, as he stoop'd again to take it up,
Thou wilt revolt, and fly to him, I fear.
And the protector's wife, beloved of him?
Indeed, I have had earnest: but I cannot with
O, a pit of clay for to be made
Commonly are; the want of which vain dew
He lives in fame that died in virtue's cause.
Of richest eyes, whose words all ears took captive,
The power of man, for none of woman born
The fairest is confession.
A persecutor, I am sure, thou art:
Flourish of trumpets: then hautboys. Enter KING  HENRY VI, GLOUCESTER, SALISBURY, WARWICK, and  CARDINAL, on the one side; QUEEN MARGARET, SUFFOLK, YORK, SOMERSET, and BUCKINGHAM, on the other
She hath been a suitor to me for her brother
Why speak'st thou not? what ransom must I pay?
o'ershower'd,
Here comes your father: never make denial;
Which we will second. When he lies along,
As much to you at home! and so, farewell.
The four strangers seek for you, madam, to take
And dare me to the desert with thy sword;
Break up the seals and read.
And call the noblest to the audience.
Of neither, girl:
'Tis he: slink by, and note him.
mightst behold the great image of authority: a
O'er whom I give thee power, here to this place:
To the rest, and 'mongst lords I be thought a fool.
Away, base cullions! Suffolk, let them go.
To kiss.
Neither.
How long hast thou been blind?
of young Master Launcelot?
gentleman or a yeoman?
I have told your lordship already, the stocks carry
You know I gave it you half an hour since.
Exeunt
SCENE II. The DUKE OF LANCASTER'S palace.
Nothing.
that is an old man and no honester than I.
Where it best fits to be, in Henry's hand.
For he's a bastard one--had plotted with them
Macduff is missing, and your noble son.
Any hard lesson that may do thee good.
We'll do thee homage and be ruled by thee,
His greatness is a-ripening, nips his root,
SCENE III. Edward's camp, near Warwick.
Of civil wounds plough'd up with neighbours' sword;
On the sixth hour; at which time, my lord,
God will revenge it. But come, let us in,
there were wealth enough for the purchase, or merit
Stocking his messenger.
O'er which his melancholy sits on brood;
Read it you, sirrah.
How is't, my soul? let's talk; it is not day.
Why, sir, if I cannot serve you, I can serve as
Ye should do service. Hark! the trumpets sound;
Or else conclude my words effectual.
Cousin, of many men
I am doubtful that you have been conjunct
'Fore God, an excellent song.
What is the matter?
To be thy nurses! Wolves and bears, they say
As thus,--to study where I well may dine,
His present reconciliation take;
Or in the incestuous pleasure of his bed;
I will enforce it easily to my love.
Some officers take them away: good guard,
Remove from her the means of all annoyance,
Lay open to my earthy-gross conceit,
In all this noble bevy, has brought with her
SCENE III. Another part of the field.
Be chosen with proclamations to-day,
And now, to add more measure to your woes,
May here find truth too. Those that come to see
That you depart and lay no hands on me
Than all thy woes can stir; therefore betake thee
The venom of such looks, we fairly hope,
Against our substitute! Let this friar be found.
And in my standard bear the arms of York
Good madam, what's the matter with my lord?
A little from this ground.
Up higher to the plain; where we'll set forth
Claudio, whom here you have warrant to execute, is
That he did plead in earnest? yea or no?
mood, and smell somewhat strong of her strong
The tevil and his tam! what phrase is this, 'He
'Item: She hath many nameless virtues.'
The heads of the maids?
To scourge the ingratitude that despiteful Rome
As easily as I do tear his paper.
Exampled by the first pace that is sick
None in the world; nor do I know the man.
and the man in blood, they will out of their
fingers off it. And then he offered it the third
It pleases him to call you so; but he hath a
Thy head is as fun of quarrels as an egg is full of
No note upon my parents, his all noble:
Of his affection to me.
Finely attired in a robe of white.
kingdom is stronger than it was at that time; and,
He is very busy about it. But, brother, I can tell
[Within]  At hand, quoth pick-purse.
How much in having, or without or in,
Or lay on that shall make your shoulders crack.
If thou hadst not been born the worst of men,
But his red colour hath forsook his cheeks.
Therefore Achilles: but, whate'er, know this:
Exeunt
Wrest once the law to your authority:
Let us sit and mock the good housewife Fortune from
Hard to seem won: but I was won, my lord,
Take him hence:
back: call you that backing of your friends? A
What sayst thou? did the Duke of York say he was
a goodly count, Count Comfect; a sweet gallant,
For nature, crescent, does not grow alone
light is an effect of fire, and fire will burn;
What lady-she her lord. You'll stay?
the king my old master must be relieved. There is
In company I often glanced it;
Who must hang them?
I have full cause of weeping; but this heart
More should I question thee, and more I must,
Marvellous well for the pen.
Good Paulina,
His fairest daughter is contaminated.
Open the gates; we are King Henry's friends.
By wicked powers.
Pray you, tell him
This comes too near the praising of myself;
And proved the subject of my own soul's curse,
Away betimes, before his forces join,
here, 'tis here. I have seen the time, with my long
There do I give to you and Jessica,
Lead me from hence:
That I should be attach'd in Ephesus,
Room for Antony, most noble Antony.
Go after him; for he perhaps shall need
As a sick girl. Ye gods, it doth amaze me
God on our side, doubt not of victory.
fowl or a hurt wild-duck. I pressed me none but such
So up and down the poor ship drives:
Reason; because they then less need one another.
But, as we often see, against some storm,
And well such losers may have leave to speak.
Fair Jessica shall be my torch-beare r.
Why the law Salique that they have in France
Only foul words; and thereupon I will kiss thee.
No, I'll be sworn; I make as good use of it as many
Offers, as I do, in a sign of peace,
Yet I'll move him
Our very priests must become mockers, if they shall
At his house this night.
SCENE I. A room in LEONTES' palace.
Then go successantly, and plead to him.
mighty, rotting
Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
SCENE II. The same.
That we shall die, we know; 'tis but the time
Exit BARDOLPH
nothing neither.
and the son and heir of a mongrel bitch: one whom I
So, so: well done, well done:
stay behind her father; let her to the Greeks; and so
Nay, then will I be gone.
No grave upon the earth shall clip in it
within the term of three years, he shall endure such
Urge it no more, my Lord Northumberland.
When great leaves fall, the winter is at hand;
And breathed such life with kisses in my lips,
Say, by this token, I desire his company
And will not promise her to any man
Your pardon, noble mistress!
To lay the blame upon her own despair,
Exit BARDOLPH
Nor suffer others.
I charge thee waft me safely cross the Channel.
Disburse the sum on the receipt thereof:
The period of thy tyranny approacheth.
By shameful murder of a guiltless king
Go search like nobles, like noble subjects,
A trial, come.
Madam, I am here.
wailing, my sister crying, our maid howling, our cat
Enter TRANIO brave, and BIONDELLO
will draw a bill of properties, such as our play
her, woo her, assail her.
Aside
I do love Cassio well; and would do much
rubies, carbuncles, sapphires, declining their rich
But be extirped from our provinces.
From whom?
Of more arrivance.
Though in and of him there be much consisting,
wrestler shall clear all: nothing remains but that
Harbour more craft and more corrupter ends
Farewell, and take her; but direct thy feet
Could such inordinate and low desires,
The head and source of all your son's distemper.
And to be talk'd with in sincerity,
To see thee fight, to see thee foin, to see thee
Which seem'd to tell them his remembrance lay
This shame derives itself from unknown loins'?
Trip no further, pretty sweeting;
A wither'd branch, that's only green at top;
But who can cease to weep and look on this?
Could speak this with as free a soul as I do!
To FABIAN
Why then, rejoice therefore.
But the plain single vow that is vow'd true.
HERO swoons
Exit
And leave me but the bran.' What say you to't?
Our chimneys were blown down; and, as they say,
If we both stay, we both are sure to die.
shall have two noble partners with you; the old
Hubert, away with him; imprison him;
With blood and sword and fire to win your right;
To strike me, spurn me, nay, to kill me too:
and Poins; he is of too high a region; he knows too
Dashes the glass against the ground
Forget the shames that you have stain'd me with,
As life were in't: I have supp'd full with horrors;
'Tis our mad sister, I do know her voice.
Hum!
Or voluntary dotage of some mistress,
My own flesh and blood to rebel!
He it is that hath
In Pericles, his queen and daughter, seen,
commonwealth; or rather, not pray to her, but prey
God be wi' you, my lord! we came but to tell you
None, but such remedy as, to save a head,
So, good night unto you all.
Presumptuous vassals, are you not ashamed
heaven or in hell!
How you excuse my brother, Rosalind.
In life's uncertain voyage, I will some kindness do them:
If you would not so,
care of him: I would not have him miscarry for the
And be you blithe and bonny,
To give this poor petition to the king,
otherwise.
your pocket like a man after the old painting; and
Yea, noise? then I'll be brief. O happy dagger!
Re-enter BENEDICK
Then he disdains to shine; for by the book
The reasons of our state I cannot yield,
Hath blazed with lights and bray'd with minstrelsy,
My cabin where I lay; thrice bow'd before me,
As doth thy face through tears of mine give light;
Welcome. Set down your venerable burthen,
To serve me last, that I may longest keep
Speak not so loud.
Chance as fair and choose as true!
Beshrew me, the knight's in admirable fooling.
gross: inkles, caddisses, cambrics, lawns: why, he
And touch thy instrument a strain or two?
By duty ruminated.
Love, lend me patience to forbear awhile.
Here is a dear, a true industrious friend,
To imitate them; faults that are rich are fair.
It doth forget to do the thing it should,
my opinion; hold it no longer: this is no fish,
bearing my port, 'celsa senis,' that we might
Retreat sounded
And in thy sight to die, what were it else
the verity of it is in strong suspicion: has the king
And he grows angry. Now, whether he kill Cassio,
Well, to the rest:
This follows, if you will not change your purpose
With those of nobler bulk!
You'ld call your children yours.
Horatio,--or I do forget myself.
I am fearful: wherefore frowns he thus?
Let's make us medicines of our great revenge,
Be absolute for death; either death or life
Thou'rt kind.
I not desire to know. Follow thy drum;
An advocate for an imposter! hush!
And, as he fell, did Romeo turn and fly.
For undertaking so unstaid a journey?
calendar of gentry, for you shall find in him the
Love can transpose to form and dignity:
Get you hence, for I must go
False king! why hast thou broken faith with me,
Shall make the gazer joy to see him tread.
And you have found me; for accordingly
My discontented troops, and lay for hearts.
Using those thoughts which should indeed have died
To show their open banner. Now to you:
O how that name befits my composition!
I stabb'd your fathers' bosoms, split my breast.
Persuaded him from any further act:
And now in plainness do confess to thee,
I shall not look upon his like again.
But even with law, against the willful sons
Will nothing stick our person to arraign
With what it loathes for that which is away.
I see that men make ropes in such a scarre
My gentleman, Cesario?
By him for whom these shames ye underwent?
Thus answer I in the name of Benedick,
Royal wench!
To know who hath obtained the glory of the day.
With any terms of zeal, wanted the modesty
No, trust me, sir, nor I.
Some god o' the island. Sitting on a bank,
Do so. Farewell, both.
Although the duke was enemy to him,
And it is thought abroad, that 'twixt my sheets
Blanket my loins: elf all my hair in knots;
Saw you no more? mark'd you not how her sister
How know you he loves her?
Is that she will not add to her damnation
I spy comfort; I cry bail. Here's a gentleman and a
We'll make our leisures to attend on yours.
SCENE II. The same. Another room.
lodging, from whence I will fitly bring you to
Poor prattler, how thou talk'st!
defence absence. What beast couldst thou be, that
That by thy comfortable beams I may
And it is nothing, nothing in the world;
But till the troops come by,
Conceit upon her father.
tale, when th' other's come to't. Hector shall not
No.
A merry heart goes all the day,
Of death or death's hand for this one-half year.
I am very glad of it: I'll plague him; I'll torture
From seventeen years till now almost fourscore
As any in Vienna, on my word.
Longer for him to make his rest.
My wretchedness unto a row of pins,
Murder, stem murder, in the direst degree;
Lives in men's eyes and will to ears and tongues
Like a true friar. More reasons for this action
Say, I will love her everlastingly.
Make her amends; she weeps.
gallant king!
Which the gods have given you?
And leave me to this miserable death:
your fair eyes and gentle wishes go with me to my
that your grace had got the good will of this young
Was woe enough, if it had ended there:
To signify their coming.
Those prisoners in your highness' name demanded,
And let Sebastian wake.' Say, this were death
Stand to't.
If he did not care whether he had their love or no,
Call this a lightning? O my love! my wife!
Why, then, thou know'st what colour jet is of?
Exeunt Gaolers, bearing out the body of MORTIMER
This ship-boy's semblance hath disguised me quite.
Witness the sorrow that their sister makes.
Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
Like our strange garments, cleave not to their mould
To be a secondary at control,
Macedon; and there is also moreover a river at
at him. I know my lady will strike him: if she do,
Exeunt
Ay, even such heaps and sums of love and wealth
Not so, neither: but know that I have to-night
A drench for sur-rein'd jades, their barley-broth,
Were it to woo my daughter; for it seems
the waist downward, all slops, and a Spaniard from
Exeunt
At Berwick in the north, an't like your grace.
This cannot be but a great courtier.
Commit it, count.
On Navarre and his book-men; for here 'tis abused.
'Zounds! how has he the leisure to be sick
O monstrous arrogance! Thou liest, thou thread,
That's well spoke.
I love thee well, in that thou likest it not.
already in the field.
All the power of his wits have given way to his
Open-eyed conspiracy
Here comes Boyet, and mirth is in his face.
As in a title-page, your worth in arms,
No, no, they were not bound.
Can touch him further.
And faster bound to Aaron's charming eyes
O, torture me no more! I will confess.
And who shines now but Henry's enemies?
And your courtesy, for a ring-carrier!
Or, by the gods, this speech were else your last.
Enter LORD ROSS and LORD WILLOUGHBY
hath clapped him o' the shoulder, but I'll warrant
To see a king transformed to a gnat!
And he that speaks doth gripe the hearer's wrist,
If you go forward; therefore yield, or die.
Then be it so; and go we to determine
I am ashamed I did yield to them.
The copy of your speed is learn'd by them;
O earth, which this blood drink'st revenge his death!
SCENE VIII. Under the walls of Alexandria.
Not resolute, except so much were done;
With hey, ho,  and c.
By law of nature and of nations, 'long
upon Saint Tavy's day.
Therefore lay bare your bosom.
Late did he shine upon the English side;
To imitate the graces of the gods;
Held up his left hand, which did flame and burn
In earth as quiet as thy father's skull:
Whereto constrain'd by her infirmity,
On horror's head horrors accumulate;
Thou with an eagle art inspired then.
May it be possible, that foreign hire
As I belong to worship and affect
Cup us, till the world go round,
Or cease your quest of love?
Nay, then, I'll set those to you that can speak.
SCENE II. A hall in the castle.
Against this cruelty fight on thy side,
Exit
And after seem to chide 'em. This shall make
No, faith, proud mistress, hope not after it:
More than a mortal seeming. Be not angry,
Reading out of a paper
Exit Secretary
Invites the King of England's stay at home;
Do you intend to stay with me tonight?
Of that same noble prelate, well beloved,
Mark then abounding valour in our English,
When but in all I was six thousand strong
Where's Publius?
Should grace the triumph of great Bolingbroke?
I saw him hold acquaintance with the waves
You wrong me more, sir, in denying it:
I'll have this knot knit up to-morrow morning.
Which of us fears.
Unto the state of Venice.
With which she follow'd my poor father's body,
Into the air; and what seem'd corporal melted
His skill in the construction.
O me, lieutenant! what villains have done this?
Did Thisbe fearfully o'ertrip the dew
Between our sovereign and the French king Charles,
To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack;
FRIAR PETER and ISABELLA come forward
Nothing at all: it is a highwrought flood;
O, bind him, bind him! let him not come near me.
Read here, young Arthur.
Out of his free love, hath presented to you
honesty; my mask, to defend my beauty; and you, to
Write me a prologue; and let the prologue seem to
To send them to you, only for this night;
Exeunt
Old woman! what old woman's that?
Like aqua-vitae with a midwife.
With an imperial voice--many are infect.
say if the importance were joy or sorrow; but in the
By this sword, he that makes the first thrust, I'll
From Sicyon, ho, the news! Speak there!
These sentences, to sugar, or to gall,
Note, notes, forsooth, and nothing.
Alas, why gnaw you so your nether lip?
Then in plain terms tell her my loving tale.
Exeunt MONTANO and GRATIANO
And vaulted with such ease into his seat,
To end the one of us; and would to God
Produce the grand sum of his sins, the articles
Knights of the garter were of noble birth,
wit-crackers cannot flout me out of my humour. Dost
And when the mind is quicken'd, out of doubt,
What with the injuries of a wanton time,
He would not seem to know me.
Say I fear'd Caesar, honour'd him and loved him.
man denies, you are now bound to believe him.
All for our vantage. Then, in God's name, march:
Thank me for this more than for all the favours
OLD receptacles, or common shores, of filth;
Whiles we are suitors to their throne, decays
Thou liest.
And that at my bidding you could so stand up.
Bell, book, and candle shall not drive me back,
it at heart! Pray God, he be not bewitched!
And interchanging blows I quickly shed
Sail how thou canst, have wind and tide thy friend,
The place of death and sorry execution,
She's there, and she is yours.
Which thou supposest I have done to thee.
Enter HOTSPUR, WORCESTER, MORTIMER, and GLENDOWER
False; we have given thee faces.
Why, man, what is the matter?
Let's kiss and part, for we have much to do.
To any shape of thy preferment such
That England shall couch down in fear and yield.
Compell'd these skipping kerns to trust their heels,
ANTIPHOLUS
The worthiest of them tell me name by name;
I pray you, daughter, sing; or express yourself in a
You made in a day, my lord, whole towns to fly.
That here you maintain several factions,
In music, letters; who hath gain'd
Give me some breath, some little pause, my lord
Even for an egg-shell. Rightly to be great
And to this purpose speak. Kings, princes, lords!
So shall my virtue be his vice's bawd;
Enter POLONIUS
Yea, this solidity and compound mass,
Sit, cousin Percy; sit, good cousin Hotspur,
With them he enters; who, upon the sudden,
Ah! thus King Henry throws away his crutch
To fall in love with him; but, for my part,
SCENE V. Another part of the field.
beauties, let me sustain no scorn; I am very
Why, how now, dame! whence grows this insolence?
Or as 'twere perfumed by a fen.
You see this fellow that is gone before;
hours at the trade.
my mind! Shall we go prove what's to be done?
And thou shalt reign in quiet while thou livest.
Thou crusty batch of nature, what's the news?
I know not: 'tis put to lottery; otherwise
What shall we do else? were we not born under Taurus?
To look upon the holy sun, to have
Than to be butcher of an innocent child.
That's my sister.
Do't, knight: I'll write thee a challenge: or I'll
Well, would I were gently put out of office
Hold, take these keys, and fetch more spices, nurse.
must know of me then, Antonio, my name is Sebastian,
Exit Page
Thou shalt not back till I have borne this corse
If all the year were playing holidays,
Madam, I'll take my leave.
To a Gentleman, who goes out
First, it was usual with him, every day
These evils thou repeat'st upon thyself
He was a kind of nothing, titleless,
And, to the last, bended their light on me.
Speak terms of manage to thy bounding steed;
lordship sees the bottom of his success in't, and to
Gramercies, lad, go forward; this contents:
Happy were England, would this gracious prince
O giglot fortune!--to master Caesar's sword,
There left me and my man, both bound together;
'Tis very grievous to be thought upon.
Lent us good Siward and ten thousand men;
How now, Varrius!
Come, sermon me no further:
Ay, and good next day too.
And yet we have but trivial argument,
Live register'd upon our brazen tombs
The most you sought was her promotion;
No, you see, he is his argument that has his
When every goose is cackling, would be thought
Exception bid him speak, and at this time
Is fall'n into the sear, the yellow leaf;
Why she dares not come over to thee.
Re-enter CASSIO
Our states are forfeit: seek not to undo us.
Tetchy and wayward was thy infancy;
Ay, sir, it is too true; God help the while!
ACT II
Sith that the justice of your title to him
He shall have the skin of our enemies, to make
Thou now request'st but moonshine in the water.
I'll make him sure enough: so, farewell to your highness.
Shall, by the power we hold, be our good deed,
off.
And all this day an unaccustom'd spirit
Her silence flouts me, and I'll be revenged.
Many good morrows to your majesty;
love; very near this. I'll speak to him again.
Benefactors? Well; what benefactors are they? are
I'll send my prayers with him.
Resolve you.
We might have met them dareful, beard to beard,
Whether I in any just term am affined
that word?
When I had seen this hot love on the wing--
Jeweller: We'll bear, with your lordship.
Stir up their servants to an act of rage,
More goddess-like than wife-like, such assaults
Of his own doors being shut against his entrance.
But in the other's silence do I see
Where Caesar's is not; but, near him, thy angel
he is indeed Justice.
Such dreadful heralds to astonish us.
How camest thou so?
I take my leave with many thousand thanks.
And so will I.
With juice of cursed hebenon in a vial,
Enter ACHILLES
Mine action and thine own? our horses' labour?
England, I could find in my heart.
What is the matter?
Good uncle, help to order several powers
I hold it fit that we shake hands and part:
for some hour before you took me from the breach of
Boy, let me see the writing.
Exit
he was rheumatic, and talked of the whore of Babylon.
I mean for your particular,--you had not
Your grace may starve perhaps before that time.
hence to wait; I beseech you, follow straight.
'Zounds, it is even now at my elbow, persuading me
Mad world! mad kings! mad composition!
SCENE I. Tarsus. An open place near the sea-shore.
And truly yielded you. You're very welcome.
Enter CHARLES, the BASTARD OF ORLEANS, ALENCON, REIGNIER, and forces
If it be true, all vengeance comes too short
To answer all the debt he owes to you
earl or duke, I can assure you.
You cannot tent yourself: be gone, beseech you.
Is like that mirth fate turns to sudden sadness.
of no having: he kept company with the wild prince
After your own sense, yea, though our proper son
Wherein we step after a stranger march
The best and wholesomest spirts of the night
I'll wear a boot, to make it somewhat rounder.
'Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too;
Be bloody, bold, and resolute; laugh to scorn
Withdraw thee, Valentine: who's this comes here?
Yes, 'tis most meet: whom may you else oppose,
Let's hence, and hear
Bear us an errand to him.
Of him that makes it: then, if sickly ears,
Nor doth he dedicate one jot of colour
The raven himself is hoarse
a merry knight. Will you go, An-heires?
Yes, troth, and troth; you would not be a queen?
Made to the queen, to call back her appeal
It seems not meet, nor wholesome to my place,
He's but a country gentleman;
voices that I may be consul, I have here the
Pretty and apt.
Anon, good nurse! Sweet Montague, be true.
That had a royal lover, took his hint;
All this I know; and to the marriage
For God he knows, and you may partly see,
Which we ascribe to heaven: the fated sky
He rush'd into my house and took perforce
Till Warwick or himself be quite suppress'd.
Because he hath a half-face, like my father.
all our misery.
Yea, Richard, when I know; for I protest
The very life-blood of our enterprise;
Old I do wax; and from my weary limbs
As in revenge, have suck'd up from the sea
Yea, but you must not make the full show of this
O, not all, my friend, not all; for if all your
O constancy, be strong upon my side,
Black men are pearls in beauteous ladies' eyes.
How now, how now!
Exeunt Sheriff and Carrier
left pap. In faith, secrets!
knave's pate.
that tears do not become a man.
Then let thy love be younger than thyself,
Have thews and limbs like to their ancestors;
Then am I king'd again: and by and by
And fall somewhat into a slower method,
Impairing Henry, strengthening misproud York,
Why, then she lives.
Did Michael Cassio, when you woo'd my lady,
Who was it?
From whom you claim; invoke his warlike spirit,
Yes, sir.
When I am dull with care and melancholy,
To want the bridegroom when the priest attends
So fare you well, my little good lord cardinal.
some to make bonfires, each man to what sport and
But longer did we not retain much hope;
sweet breath as will utter a brace of words.
Than these two creatures. Which is Sebastian?
I had rather walk here, I thank you. I bruised
You'll mar the light by taking it in snuff;
Never to taste the pleasures of the world,
Rarest sounds! Do ye not hear?
And with thy scorns drew'st rivers from his eyes,
We, as the spring of all, shall pay for all.
What is the fourth?
Attest in little place a million;
Exeunt severally
Troy in our weakness stands, not in her strength.
Except, O signieur, thou do give to me
To hunt the panther and the hart with me,
I know his soul is in heaven, fool.
house, and some to Casca's; some to Ligarius': away, go!
My heart will sigh when I miscall it so,
Good brother, come you hither;
Such a compounded one?
And so I am: then crushing penury
Back, slave, or I will break thy pate across.
To take thy life from thee.
You are as fond of grief as of your child.
Why stand these royal fronts amazed thus?
[To QUEEN ELINOR]  So shall it be; your grace shall
In faith,
Why, so hath this, both by the father and mother.
No longer from head to foot than from hip to hip:
There is not so much left, to furnish out
Plenty and peace breeds cowards: hardness ever
Periods his comfort.
If we have unearned luck
To Marcius shall be honours, though indeed
Nay, mark how Lewis stamps, as he were nettled:
I cannot judge: but to conclude with truth,
Michael, good night: to-morrow with your earliest
Than wish a snow in May's new-fangled mirth;
I thank you, gentle uncle. O, my lord,
In supplication nod: and my young boy
Burns under feigned ashes of forged love
On fortune's cap we are not the very button.
Nay, heaven doth know.
Mischance and sorrow go along with you!
thy assailant is quick, skilful and deadly.
And we must yearn therefore.
For she's a woman to be pitied much:
Throws down a letter
Not I, honey-sweet queen. I long to hear how they
And with thy weapon nothing darest perform!
What are you here that cry so grievously?
To feeling as to sight? or art thou but
Not for the world: why, man, she is mine own,
You are pleasant, sir, and speak apace.
Most learned judge! A sentence! Come, prepare!
Rue, even for ruth, here shortly shall be seen,
One all of luxury, an ass, a madman;
To signify that rebels there are up
Make space enough between you.
your infamy circum circa,--a gig of a cuckold's horn.
That in the ocean seeks another drop,
Just, if he send me no husband; for the which
In thy tale.
I vow by heaven these eyes shall never close.
He made you for a highway to my bed;
Oft have I seen the haughty cardinal,
But, wherefore, villain, didst thou kill my cousin?
What wouldst thou have me do?
Why, thou owest God a death.
henned sparrow! 'loo, Paris, 'loo! The bull has the
And for the same he promised me a chain:
Exeunt
Was as a scorpion to her sight; whose life,
Put we our quarrel to the will of heaven;
Here comes his body, mourned by Mark Antony: who,
His grandfather was Lionel Duke of Clarence,
and dare not task my weakness with any more.
Let me be thought too busy in my fears--
I'll lend it thee, my dear; but have no power
them to a dog for a new-year's gift. The rogues
An you call him a-down-a.
To get good guard and go along with me.
Whilst such a worthy leader, wanting aid,
Your party in converse, him you would sound,
Thinking his prattle to be tedious;
Have we pass'd through, not without much content
As if the entertainment in our court
For I intend to have it ere long.
Offering KENT his cap
All this was order'd by the good discretion
And in such forms which here were presupposed
Who wear our health but sickly in his life,
And, look you, here's your letter; this it says:
Upon your never-withering banks of flowers:
He makes sweet music with the enamell'ed stones,
You'll turn a child again.
Exit
Within two days for this.
And follows close the rigour of the statute,
O happy torment, when my torturer
is a figure in rhetoric that drink, being poured out
Drive him to Rome: 'tis time we twain
What horse? a roan, a crop-ear, is it not?
Having all day caroused and banqueted:
Holla! stand there!
The form of plausive manners, that these men,
Not mine, in good sooth.
With my master's ship? why, it is at sea.
Have you
Than to drive liking to the name of love:
They prepare to play
Welcome to Rome, renowned Coriolanus!
And with a larger tether may he walk
Is still a dying horror!
Exit
To bind him to remember my good will;
heart, you brew good ale.'
Look, what thou want'st shall be sent after thee:
You blocks, you stones, you worse than senseless things!
presents Hector of Troy; the swain, Pompey the
Would bring white hairs unto a quiet grave.
At whose expense 'tis done.
What I have written to you?
Turn'd her obedience, which is due to me,
Away to heaven, respective lenity,
It reaches far, and where 'twill not extend,
I met the duke yesterday and had much question with
Or madly think a babe of clouts were he:
Thou'rt a good boy: this secrecy of thine shall be
For Suffolk, he that can do all in all
She came adorned hither like sweet May,
My practises ride easy! I see the business.
judgments in whosoever, and a proper man of person.
If that I do not dream or be not frantic,--
A man of thy profession and degree;
For them the gracious Duncan have I murder'd;
Much weightier than this work. The queen's in labour,
To enforce the pained impotent to smile.
Then must thou needs find out new heaven, new earth.
We are not safe, Clarence; we are not safe.
A soldier's a man;
As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents;
As I suck blood, I will some mercy show.
With dull unwilligness to repay a debt
the emperor from you.
Thyself shalt see the act:
Do I curse thee?
her, child, if she be a whore.
My lord?
Full of the pasture, jumps along by him
We shall,
Say he dines forth, and let no creature enter.
No more but, plain and bluntly, 'To the king!'
Caesar to Antony: let the old ruffian know
Our business valued, some twelve days hence
Which art possess'd now to depose thyself.
So doth the greater glory dim the less:
For valiant doings in their country's cause?
Is it your trick to make me ope the door,
Believe me, I am not; I tell thee true.
Do you think I am so far deceived in him?
Mass, and my elbow itched; I thought there would a
The model of our chaste loves, his young daughter;
Forsake unsounded deeps to dance on sands.
will do it in action as we will do it before the duke.
No more words: the clerk is answered.
This is the tragic tale of Philomel,
Come Lammas-eve at night shall she be fourteen.
Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
The mettle of your pasture; let us swear
Sir Hugh, my husband says my son profits nothing in
Go, I discharge thee of thy prisoner, and I thank thee.
That keep the word of promise to our ear,
And tell me now, sweet friend, what happy gale
That do renown this city.
As pearls from diamonds dropp'd. In brief,
Thou loathed issue of thy father's loins!
And passed sentence may not be recall'd
O, that's the Latin word for three farthings: three
A lack of Timon's aid, hath sense withal
I have received much honour by your presence,
That will be thaw'd from the true quality
Scotland hath will to help, but cannot help;
Of differences, which I least thought it fit
Only for saying he would make his son
In the which hope I blush, and hide my sword.
Wilt have him live? Is he thy kin? thy friend?
I am weary of you.
That stay at home, if bearing carry it,
Ay.
Content thee, prince; I will restore to thee
Sir, much like
Go to their graves like beds, fight for a plot
Is like a villain with a smiling cheek,
Another way I have to man my haggard,
And if I have a co nscience, let it sink me,
To look like her are chimney-sweepers black.
Courageous Bedford, let us now persuade you.
To turn their own points on their masters' bosoms:
What noise there, ho?
cause, and merry against the hair: he hath the
So good a quarrel and so bad a peer.
Enter DOLABELLA
I pray you, let it stand.
To save our heads by raising of a head;
knot of his scarf, and the practise in the chape of
Gentle Octavia,
you, of the Roman disciplines, than is a puppy-dog.
I am not furnish'd with the present money;
'Tis time, I think, to trudge, pack and be gone.
Of such divine perfection, as Sir Proteus.
My father as he slept, I had done't.
village, who hath promised to meet me in this place
Shed thou no blood, nor cut thou less nor more
in his sides? is there yet another dotes upon
too well, for there he fell in love. I have heard
Thou sing'st sweet music. Hark, come hither, Tyrrel
Him we go to find: there's not a hair on's head
Have their ingratitude in them hereditary:
I do believe that violent hands were laid
If you thrive well, bring them to Baynard's Castle;
Be brooch'd with me; if knife, drugs,
to write to one that she knew would flout her; 'I
Princes have but their tides for their glories,
O that your frowns would teach my smiles such skill!
To plead for love deserves more fee than hate.
That have a sharper known; well corresponding
And in the very pangs of death he cried,
With trial-fire touch me his finger-end:
town-armory, with a broken hilt, and chapeless;
Through fair Verona; find those persons out
About the wood go swifter than the wind,
good strings to your beards, new ribbons to your
I'll not to bed to-night; let me alone;
pies; mace; dates?--none, that's out of my note;
Such precious deeds in one that promises nought
'Faith, that was not so well; yet would I knew
And we be lords and rulers over Rouen;
Were all too little to content and please,
Were I but where 'tis spoken.
And so 'scape hanging: trust not the physician;
What thou shouldst be: the occasion speaks thee, and
That thou wilt never render to me more!
You spend your passion on a misprised mood:
Unhappy fortune! by my brotherhood,
Falstaff's and our meeting, they will at once
They shall have wars and pay for their presumption.
Two thousand, fair woman: and I'll vouchsafe thee
How many of you have mine eyes beheld!
If happy England's royal king be free.
you to Lord Timon's.
I cannot joy, until I be resolved
Nothing but to show you how a king may go a
Exeunt
To show him what a beggar his heart is,
He should have found his uncle Gaunt a father,
Chrish save me, I will cut off your head.
The life of Tybalt.
Thrice the brinded cat hath mew'd.
In dignity, and for the liberal arts
And ever and anon they made a doubt
I find at such proud rate, that it out-speaks
According to their firm proposed natures.
positive as the earth is firm that Falstaff is
You are too blunt: go to it orderly.
O, doubt not that;
That's your device.
Re-enter Attendant
Nay, if you strive--
Is't so saucy?
I am glad on't with all my heart.--
Welcome to Troy! now, by Anchises' life,
Had not your man put up the fowl so suddenly,
The sinewy vigour of the traveller.
The thunder of my cannon shall be heard:
Exit
That hast within thee undivulged crimes,
Between the floods of Sala and of Elbe;
And teaches me to kill or hang myself:
She is not hot, but temperate as the morn;
Dares stir a wing, if Warwick shake his bells.
O Griffith, sick to death!
And his achievements of no less account:
Sweet widow, by my state I swear to thee
My lord, I have remembrances of yours,
It was his bidding: therefore, good Emilia,.
Thy tender-hefted nature shall not give
We speak in vain.
This is a dull sight. Are you not Kent?
thou art thought to be Achilles' male varlet.
Peter Quince! Flute, the bellows-mender! Snout,
O Jupiter, how weary are my spirits!
on his wife's frailty, yet I cannot put off my
Dost seem so ignorant, we'll enforce it from thee
May catch a wrench--would all were well--'tis pity;--
SCENE III. The same.
But she is dead.
To every idle rascal follower.
My lord, you told me you would tell the rest,
By whose approach the regions of Artois,
What's that?
For that our kingdom's earth should not be soil'd
Montague, Montague, for Lancaster!
May it please you, lords, to grant the commons' suit.
At supper.
Pardon me, royal sir;
That, when he waked, of force she must be eyed.
Celestial Dian, goddess argentine,
To-morrow, cousin Percy, you and I
Which is the least?
could not have owed her a more rooted love.
Away! get you away.
Humbly I thank your lordship: never may
Farewell, our brother.
Not till God make men of some other metal than
against us.
Enter LADY MACBETH
Now I see
Exit
O diable, diable! vat is in my closet? Villain! larron!
People of Rome, and people's tribunes here,
And at that time bequeathe you my diseases.
lady's opinion; where you will hang like an icicle
from my shoulder to my heel with no greater a run
From heaven! alas, sir, I never came there     God
I could give better comfort than you do.
More worthy this place than myself; to whom,
His cold thin drink out of his leather bottle.
SCENE V. A park near Middleham Castle In Yorkshire.
for you; and there's an end.
Knock,
May have a tomb of orphans' tears wept on em! What more?
Hast thou read truth?
If you do, sir, I am for you: I serve as good a man as you.
I gin to be aweary of the sun,
itself courageous to petticoat: therefore courage,
Bury it certain fathoms in the earth,
That we could hear no news of his repair?
What, resists he? Help him, Lucio.
A wonder, or a wondrous miracle,
Were by his side; sometime he calls the king,
Having neither subject, wealth, nor diadem.
That in your country's service drew your swords:
When as I sat in Pabylon--
Into a towering passion.
How hast thou lost thy breath?
Where no man never comes but that sad dog
O my lord, my lord,
Or else let Talbot perish with this shame.
You, sir, I entertain for one of my hundred; only I
My lord chamberlain,
Do you think there is truth in them?
To be Count Malvolio!
I think, is not for idle markets, sir.
Where, by her own most clear remembrance, she
Sir, believe this,
You'll nothing, madam, to my lord by me?
My lord, there is a messenger from Rome
Hath to the marbled mansion all above
because the unconquered soul of Cade is fled.
Stand by, or I shall gall you, Faulconbridge.
Now, Kate, I am a husband for your turn;
I shall forget, to have thee still stand there,
obstacles: it made me once restore a purse of gold
But speak all good you can devise of Caesar,
That your activity may defeat and quell
Reads
'Tis not the difference of a year or two
A figure of truth, of faith, of loyalty:
A lousy knave, to have his gibes and his mockeries!
Shall come against him.
night, where each of us fell in praise of our
here. Do you understand me?
I have dogs, my lord,
Where now you're both a father and a son,
Carried herself towards me.
Hath for your love a great a pang of heart
And happily we might be interrupted.
So workmanly the blood and tears are drawn.
Anon expect him here; but if she be obdurate
Good-morrow, cousin.
A brave defiance in King Henry's teeth,
Stand fair, I pray thee: let me look on thee.
My crown is in my heart, not on my head;
Most heavy day!
Tubal, a wealthy Hebrew of my tribe,
But with them change of honours.
By God's sonties, 'twill be a hard way to hit. Can
This youth, how'er distress'd, appears he hath had
I ne'er heard yet
Nay then, I will not: you shall have the mustard,
SCENE IV. DUKE ORSINO's palace.
SCENE IV. A hall in Black-Friars.
That would not bless our Europe with your daughter,
I am glad to see you well:
An honourable husband. Come, Camillo,
He is both king and Duke of Lancaster;
What else? and that succession be determined.
But see, while idly I stood looking on,
Unto the frowning judge? or who pronounced
But in my garments.
diet; to watch like one that fears robbing; to
Re-enter Lords, with EXETER and train
Of honourable reckoning are you both;
To hear the lamentations of Poor Anne,
no dishonest desire to desire to be a woman of the
To beat assailing death from his weak legions:
Tearing off his clothes
If he could right himself with quarreling,
Yes, but you will my noble grapes, an if
If a man's brains were in's heels, were't not in
Went all afoot in summer's scalding heat,
Doth not Brutus bootless kneel?
That now lies foul and muddy. Not one of them
Hath rivall'd for our daughter: what, in the least,
Here they do the ceremonies belonging, and make the  circle; BOLINGBROKE or SOUTHWELL reads, Conjuro te, and c. It thunders and lightens terribly; then the Spirit riseth
you have seen the sequel.
Are yet two Romans living such as these?
Bid him set on his powers betimes before,
Are there no other tokens
To unloose this tied-up justice when you pleased:
Return those duties back as are right fit,
And tragical, my noble lord, it is;
In life so lifeless as it shows itself.
That hath authority over him that swears:
more tractable.
O here's a wit of cheveril, that stretches from an
I know the good king and queen have sent for you.
orchard, were thus much overheard by a man of mine:
For we will fetters put upon this fear,
I must change arms at home, and give the distaff
To quit the fine for one half of his goods,
Lepidus, let him speak:
Did show ourselves i' the field; and to that end
fellow there, whose villanous saffron would have
Where's Bohemia? speak.
Let me be recorded by the righteous gods,
Would have mourn'd longer--married with my uncle,
Are well foretold that danger lurks within.
Enter other Servants
With bloody veins, expecting overthrow,
Many years of happy days befal
Whensoever he's convented. First, for this woman.
Earth's increase, foison plenty,
Farewell, great chief. Shall I strike now?
Bardolph, am I not fallen away vilely since this last
That box I gave you was not thought by me
O'er-cover'd quite with dead men's rattling bones,
shepherd; but I seek my master, and my master seeks
Abate thy valour in the acting it.
For, being green, there is great hope of help.
Prithee, call Gardiner to me, my new secretary:
Is ruin'd, and the soul of every man
Stand thee by, friar. Father, by your leave:
Have mercy, Jesu!--Soft! I did but dream.
Calls your worship?
SCENE V. Another part of the Park.
From camp to camp through the foul womb of night
Be sometime honour'd for his burning throne!
Than with your weapons.
Than that of painted pomp? Are not these woods
As words could make up vows: and, my good lord,
In readiness for Hymenaeus stand,
A perilous gash, a very limb lopp'd off:
The want thereof makes thee abominable:
Marry, bachelor,
Lend me a garter. So. O, for a chair,
The Britons have razed out, though with the loss
I'll bring you to him straight.
That you are well derived.
his grace, and it better fits my blood to be
The French leap over the walls in their shirts.  Enter, several ways, the BASTARD OF ORLEANS, ALENCON, and REIGNIER, half ready, and half unready
Worthy Othello, I am hurt to danger:
[Singing]  I call'd my love false love; but what
IAGO from behind wounds CASSIO in the leg, and exit
I know the young gentlewoman; she has good gifts.
And thou shalt die for't.
straight arms, none.
If either of you both love Katharina,
Under the Dauphin.
and the clearstores toward the south north are as
one another and shook their heads; but, for mine own
but upon my mended judgment--if I offend not to say
blood and baseness of our natures would conduct us
Well, I say no: and therefore for assurance
Well, every one can master a grief but he that has
My lord, we have
Re-enter ANTONIO, with the Ladies masked
Away, then! come, seek the conspirators.
A very tainted fellow, and full of wickedness.
Sent by a consul to me, should not sooner
Besides, the king's name is a tower of strength,
Well, we will hear further of it by your daughter:
You may so; 'tis the better for you that your
drudge: he that comforts my wife is the cherisher
This king unto him took a fere,
In changing hardiment with great Glendower:
O, well said, Lucius!
How 'scaped I killing when I cross'd you so?
That is well known; and, as I think, one father:
I do not know, my lord, what I should think.
As dear to me as are the ruddy drops
sight she uses thee kindly: but thou liest in thy
not wounded? he was wont to come home wounded.
To beg of Hob and Dick, that do appear,
I cannot tell; expect they are busied about a
Thou said'st, it comes o'er my memory,
That which I owe is lost; but if you please
That palter with us in a double sense;
on't! there 'tis: now, sit, this staff is my
And buckle in a waist most fathomless
ribbon, glass, pomander, brooch, table-book, ballad,
I would prefer him to a better place.
You have bereft me of all words, lady.
Where is she, sir? How
The happy tidings of his good escape.
By me?
Dites-moi l'Anglois pour le bras.
Nothing of me, has a'?
Love, charity, obedience, and true duty!
Rather than have that savage duke thine heir
An if I could, what should I get therefore?
Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads,
Wilt thou rob this leathern jerkin, crystal-button,
That means to be of note, begins betimes.
Do it in hope of fair advantages:
And keep the turn of tippling with a slave;
Who shall be of as little memory
O just but severe law!
Will you be ruled by me?
So early walking did I see your son:
Is not a single doom; in the name lay
I will not be myself, nor have cognition
You are full of heavenly stuff, and bear the inventory
My lord, the mayor of London comes to greet you.
Whose was't?
I never had honest man about me, I; all
Which pillage they with merry march bring home
For I have heard that she was there in place.
I'll visit you.
Whose haughty spirit, winged with desire,
The curse of heaven and men succeed their evils!
And fit it with such furniture as suits
remain; but when you depart from me, sorrow abides
An heir, and near allied unto the duke.
Ay, come:--O Jove!--do come:--I shall be plagued.
here are simple scapes. Well, if Fortune be a
To win the Moor--were't to renounce his baptism,
So he is.
How old art thou?
Outbrave the heart most daring on the earth,
She hung about my neck; and kiss on kiss
To this most patient, sweet and virtuous wife:
Of younger spirits, whose apprehensive senses
Pray thee, fellow, peace: I do not like thy look,
The deeds of mercy. I have spoke thus much
this man made you, sir?
The fatal balls of murdering basilisks:
custom of exercises; and indeed it goes so heavily
Cancel and tear to pieces that great bond
Now, Dian, from thy altar do I fly,
That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
For I will buz abroad such prophecies
The duke retain'd him his. But on; what hence?
Hear me, O, hear me!
Strike, you slave; stand, rogue, stand; you neat
Of her society
O Phebe, Phebe, Phebe!
Struck the main-top! O Posthumus! alas,
My soul flies through these wounds to seek out Thee.
'Twill vex thy soul to hear what I shall speak;
What think you of this page, my lord?
traitors too; in her they are the better for their
If you will not murder me for my love, let me be
As, if God please, they shall,--my ransom then
Yet, for our gentlemen that mean to see
Condemning some to death, and some to exile;
war, no taxation of homage: I hold the olive in my
Exit
In peace and honour live Lord Titus long;
I know your back will bear a duchess: say,
if he should cheapen a kiss of her.
Ha! let me see her: out, alas! she's cold:
To stand the push and enmity of those
Assays to lead the way: if I once stir,
Says that you savour too much of your youth,
Here, my good lord. What is't that moves your highness?
Which they have given to beggars.
More sacks to the mill! O heavens, I have my wish!
Be patient, gentle Nell; forget this grief.
There, hold!
I' the way of flattery further.
To be set high in place, we did commend
ACT V
So awake when I am gone;
Come hither, Isabel.
New wars 'gainst Pompey; made his will, and read it
died: they say he made a good end,--
Do not you fear: upon mine honour,
The cat will mew and dog will have his day.
Who else must be let blood, who else is rank:
That by proscription and bills of outlawry,
This is the flower that smiles on every one,
This royal hand and mine are newly knit,
Himself a king.
Call all in all sufficient? Is this the nature
She had just cause.
All's done, my lord.
figures out of your husband's brains. If they can
The sciences that should become our country;
there are ways to recover the general again: you
That Christendom gives out.
And true he swore, though yet forsworn he were.
Ay, sooth; so humbled
To shake the head, relent, and sigh, and yield
Would safely deliver me from this place!
Then nightly sings the staring owl, 	Tu-whit;
I pray thee, hear me speak.
She did disdain my child, and stood between
Let me excuse me, and believe me so,
utter all to thee.
I beseech your grace to pardon me, and withal
Whose own hard dealings teaches them suspect
I will not choose what many men desire,
Than greatness going off.
The citizens fly and forsake their houses:
cleared of the dead.
Divide me like a bribe buck, each a haunch: I will
After your highness had reproved the duke
That seeks not to find that her search implies,
Exit
There was no money in't: not Hercules
O my lord,
Then lay me forth: although unqueen'd, yet like
Warr'st thou 'gainst Athens?
Lest he should help his father.
It shall to the barber's, with your beard. Prithee,
Enter FALSTAFF, BARDOLPH, NYM, and PISTOL
Thou perjured, and thou simular man of virtue
Enter MARK ANTONY with a Messenger and Attendants
And likewise will visit thee with mine.
Came there a certain lord, neat, and trimly dress'd,
Soft! take thy physic first--thou too--and thou;--
was born to speak all mirth and no matter.
I take my leave before I have begun,
Down, strumpet!
As he is famed for mildness, peace, and prayer.
Thy fortune, York, hadst thou been regent there,
And the desire of the nobles.
I think there's no man speaks better Welsh.
'Tis no sinister nor no awkward claim,
I fear me, never.
Call thyself sister, sweet, for I am thee.
nature's journeymen had made men and not made them
A nursery to our gentry, who are sick
To her allowing husband!
Yes, indeed shall you, and taste gentlemen of all
Consorted with that harlot strumpet Shore,
O, she that might have intercepted thee,
That's it; I would have said the very same.
Ye men of Cyprus, let her have your knees.
His eyes do drop no tears, his prayers are in jest;
He's too big to go in there. What shall I do?
Enter AARON, with a bag of gold
adversary's entertainment. Now he hath a smack of
Deaf'd with the clamours of their own dear groans,
Didst not thou share? hadst thou not fifteen pence?
To make their audit at your highness' pleasure,
Than hath been taught by any of my trade:
But when my angry guardant stood alone,
But rather reason thus with reason fetter,
Beside, I fear me, if thy thoughts were sifted,
An if the devil come and roar for them,
Admit me Chorus to this history;
Equality of two domestic powers
I have for the most part been aired abroad, I
Marry, to--Come, captain, will you go?
Let us, that are poor petitioners, speak too:
Now, by mine honour, which is yet mine own,
And like a scurvy politician, seem
No weapons, sir. There comes my master, Master
You break no privilege nor charter there.
O me, my heart, my rising heart! but, down!
'Zounds, sir, you're robb'd; for shame, put on
saying is, the third pays for all: the triplex,
The chief aim of his honour; and, to strengthen
O, two such silver currents, when they join,
Your wonder: but yet speak; first, you, my liege,
One of our order, to associate me,
leaves, what is't to leave betimes?
So in his red blood Cassius' day is set;
thee, in what motion age will give me leave.
I hope your own grace will keep you where you are,
Welcomed and settled to his own desire.
And in our sports my better cunning faints
Where's Bede? Go you, and where you find a maid
It is not my consent,
I am sorry that your leisure serves you not.
Yet, that the world may witness that my end
burn; that good pasture makes fat sheep, and that a
The crown to thee and to thine heirs for ever;
SCENE III. London. Before the Tower.
Enter DIOMEDES
Bade me enjoy it, with the place and honours,
God be wi' you, sir.
Your enemies, with nodding of their plumes,
Enter HOTSPUR
The future in the instant.
your worships: more of your conversation would
Crave leave to view these ladies and entreat
And that the legions now in Gallia are
Shylock is my name.
you speak. But, if ever the duke return, as our
and in these degrees have they made a pair of stairs
Nay, but I bar to-night: you shall not gauge me
Fear not; 'tis empty of all things but grief;
O, sir, sir, sir,
Come hither, Aaron; I'll deceive them both:
And swear unto my soul to right your wrongs.
Is this the Talbot, so much fear'd abroad
As once our mother; use like note and words,
me, like an old cuckold, with horns on his head, and
I throw my warlike shield. Lay on, Macduff,
Admit no other way to save his life,--
Yes, my lord, and of very valiant approof.
They cast their caps up and carouse together
In their applauding gates.
on the gown the while.
my stops; you would pluck out the heart of my
Environed with all these hideous fears?
Held a late court at Dunstable, six miles off
So that the art and practic part of life
Revoke that doom of mercy, for 'tis Clifford;
A due sincerity govern'd his deeds,
Farewell, every one.
And they shall feel the vengeance of my wrath.
To hear the piteous moan that Rutland made
To give obedience where 'tis truly owed:
Ay, noble father, if our words will serve.
I am not a slut, though I thank the gods I am foul.
This bond expires, I do expect return
I hear your grace hath sworn out house-keeping:
Becomes his captain's captain: and ambition,
A hundred marks, my Kate does put her down.
Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY
ANTIPHOLUS
came, saw, and overcame: he came, one; saw two;
Of speaking first. Sweet, bid me hold my tongue,
A double blessing is a double grace,
The people cry you mock'd them, and of late,
Who, in his circumstance, expressly proves
Why came not the slave back to me when I called him.
Here's a letter come from yond poor girl.
I had rather have my wounds to heal again
What I can urge against him. Although it seems,
He talks at random; sure, the man is mad.
Swinge me them soundly forth unto their husbands:
them: there may be matter in it.
land-service, to see how the bear tore out his
Four days will quickly steep themselves in night;
That in your knowledge may by me be done,
Who is it that can tell me who I am?
On the catastrophe and heel of pastime,
Exeunt Second Merchant, Angelo, Officer, and Antipholus of Ephesus
A testament of noble-ending love.
How now! who is it?
The fineness of which metal is not found
Lackbeard there, he and I shall meet: and, till
Donalbain.
A' will betray us all unto ourselves:
No, it begins again.
I will go eat with thee and see your knights.
My lord, not I.
Thus we set on, Camillo, to the sea-side.
therefore it behoves men to be wary.
To punish me with this and this with me,
he waved indifferently 'twixt doing them neither
Stop,
You were pretty lordings then?
For I'll refer me to all things of sense,
Which not to cut would show thee but a fool,
And we must do it wisely.
She has a huswife's hand; but that's no matter:
Use our commission in his utmost force.
Marry, as I take it, to Rousillon;
That I am guiltless of your father's death,
We will not meddle with him till he come; for his
Roaming clean through the bounds of Asia,
To bring my whole cause 'fore his holiness,
Good morrow to this fair assembly.
Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet,
I will be very kind, and liberal
Have at it then, by leave.
What plume of feathers is he that indited this letter?
look upon his removedness; from whom I have this
Exit above
as a drunken sleep; careless, reckless, and fearless
Hath he forgot he is his sovereign?
me, was yet of many accounted beautiful: but,
But cozen'd and beguiled.
said she, 'a fine little one.' 'No,' said I, 'a
All leave us else; but let your cares o'erlook
Greater than shows itself at the first view
Sir, spare your threats:
Too much to know is to know nought but fame;
Farewell!
For that I woo, thou therefore hast no cause,
plucked geese, played truant and whipped top, I knew
Drawing his sword
[Within]  Away, you rogue, away! I am sleepy.
And, looking on it with lack-lustre eye,
Had I but said, I would have kept my word,
Doth live again in thee: long mayst thou live
A merrier day did never yet greet Rome,
If this foul deed were by to equal it:
To this imperial throne. There is no bar
away all night.
No less beloved. The Roman emperor's letters,
To see him pass on to the Capitol.
Enter JULIET
This is too long.
No heart among you? or had you tongues to cry
But when they would seem soldiers, they have galls,
And I will have you and that fault withal;
Hence with thy stripes, begone!
I greet thy love,
Till he had forged himself a name o' the fire
Masters of the people,
Who sent you hither? Wherefore do you come?
To yield possession to my holy prayers
Stand farther. Come, proceed.
Why do you make us love your goodly gifts,
in their hearts, that for their tongues to be
Dispatch; the limit of your lives is out.
What says the silver with her virgin hue?
Takes his keys
But, my lord cardinal, and you, my Lord of Suffolk,
Press not a falling man too far! 'tis virtue:
Your lord has betook himself to unknown travels,
Unto the main! O father, Maine is lost;
As England was his faithful tributary,
Mad call I it; for, to define true madness,
God save King Henry, of that name the sixth!
How dearly would it touch me to the quick,
Exeunt
All swoln and ulcerous, pitiful to the eye,
To his own hand, in's bedchamber.
A mighty man of Pisa; by report
Dangerous conceits are, in their natures, poisons.
praised: but reserve still to give, lest your
And when he says he is, say that he dreams,
I'll yet follow
Why dost thou quiver, man?
Than spotted livers in the sacrifice.
We will make amends ere long;
Believe it, this is true:
me; by my troth, it is no addition to her wit, nor
By my troth, niece, thou wilt never get thee a
Of the divorce he'ld make! The heavens hold firm
The regent hath with Talbot broke his word
Twelve year since, Miranda, twelve year since,
For, look you, I may make the belly smile
up--to a contaminated stale, such a one as Hero.
And your fair princess,--goddess!--O, alas!
Chirrah!
And you shall find yourself to be well thank'd,
Move them no more by crossing their high will.
Exeunt
Lo, now, lo!
Not her that chides, sir, at any hand, I pray.
Enter three Murderers
Where?
That has he knows not what. Nature, what things there are
Like to a lonely dragon, that his fen
And tell him privily of our intent.
How now? two of my brother's men bound! Borachio
With you, my Lord of Lincoln; you remember
Part of thy father may be saved in thee.
Enter BUCKINGHAM and CLIFFORD
At point a hundred knights: yes, that, on every dream,
burthen and how she longed to eat adders' heads and
We were, fair queen,
To dim his glory and to stain the track
This bodes some strange eruption to our state.
That here by mountaineers lies slain. Alas!
What means our cousin, that he stares and looks
Go to; have your lath glued within your sheath
What cursed foot wanders this way to-night,
As if it had lungs and rotten ones.
Thou teachest like a fool; the way to lose him.
Cudgel thy brains no more about it, for your dull
And, farewell, friends;
Where you shall find me well accompanied
Your oath once broke, you force not to forswear.
offenders, and let Time try: adieu.
Enter a Goth, leading AARON with his Child in his arms
lord, fie! a soldier, and afeard? What need we
Enter Thisbe
All the Talbots in the world, to save my life!
Howlings attend it: how hast thou the heart,
Enter Fiends
What he cannot help in his nature, you account a
Wouldst thou have thyself fall in the confusion of
A plague upon him! muffled! he can say nothing of
bed, and dream on the event. Farewell.
Best sing it to the tune of 'Light o' love.'
the coast on Wednesday the four-score of April,
Therefore, stand up; and, for these good deserts,
And thank the holy conclave for their loves:
In his bright radiance and collateral light
Ho, ho! I laugh to think that babe a bastard.
Ay, my lord.
Lo, at this tomb my tributary tears
Unwillingly to school. And then the lover,
Music. The witches dance and then vanish, with HECATE
the moon when time was.
Spur your proud horses hard, and ride in blood;
And art confederate with a damned pack
Is she your cousin?
That sucks the nurse asleep?
Liege of all loiterers and malcontents,
more the pity that some honest neighbours will not
but it is no more unhandsome than to see the lord
Until some half-hour past, when I was arm'd:
Things base and vile, folding no quantity,
To know the cause of your abrupt departure.
O this learning, what a thing it is!
Then swore he that he was a stranger here.
Either to get the town again or die:
We shall chide downright, if I longer stay.
Meaning henceforth to trouble you no more.
Which if they do, yet will I keep thee safe,
Indeed I weigh not you, and therefore light.
A very noble youth: mark.
Enter FLAVIUS in a cloak, muffled
Villain, I say, knock me here soundly.
We English warriors wot not what it means.
Those that with haste will make a mighty fire
Ay, good my lord.
Thou art allotted to be ta'en by me:
That you might know it, would much better please me
Or hailstone in the sun. Your virtue is
EPILOGUE
affairs of love, it may be said of him that Cupid
Enter the two French Lords and some two or three Soldiers
If Hermia meant to say Lysander lied.
For often, with a solemn earnestness,
my table so many meals? Come, what's Agamemnon?
Has business at his house; for all shall stay:
What more fearful?
Together with my brave Egyptians all,
Enter THURIO and Musicians
The newest state.
Betwixt ourselves and all our followers:
Danger and disobedience in thine eye:
Did I expose myself, pure for his love,
Since all and every part of what we would
That passion cannot rule.
O gross and miserable ignorance!
If wolves had at thy gate howl'd that stern time,
Poor Tom; that eats the swimming frog, the toad,
disobedience. He that hangs himself is a virgin:
And keep it safe for our remembrance:
Nay, that's not your way.
Like to a double cherry, seeming parted,
Threatening the welkin with his big-swoln face?
What men of name are slain on either side?
Madam, withdraw: the prince, the count, Signior
good friend Trinculo.
And when my knightly stomach is sufficed,
Where is thy brother Bassianus?
That ever turn'd their eyes to mortal views!--Out--
By these gloves, then, 'twas he.
I swear by that which I will lose for thee,
'twould not ha' bin zo long as 'tis by a vortnight.
Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.
charge you withal, be even and direct with me,
Ever right.
Ah, my sweet Moor, sweeter to me than life!
I protest, the schoolmaster is exceeding
Will not offend thee.
With plenteous rivers and wide-skirted meads,
partly thy mother's word, partly my own opinion,
For Henry weeps that thou dost live so long.
Do you not remember, lady, in your father's time, a
you had appointed?
Bosko chimurcho.
I have a kind of self resides with you;
My queen, my life, my wife! O Imogen,
Nor airless dungeon, nor strong links of iron,
things go.
Who's there, ha?
As if thou then hadst shut up in thy brain
Prithee, return: with thy approach, I know,
to-day; whereupon the Grecians begin to proclaim
Your answer had not been inscroll'd:
If ever I return to you again,
Be answer'd in his challenge: Ajax is ready.
And let the unscarr'd braggarts of the war
Follow your envious courses, men of malice;
O God, O God! that e'er this tongue of mine,
Do more than this in sport. Father, father!
ACT III
Lest by his clamour--as it so fell out--
To camp this host, we all would sup together,
Into the law of children. Be not fond,
How now, worthy soldier?
Upon whose grave thou vow'dst pure chastity.
Live, and beget a happy race of kings!
Marry, I fare well for here is cheer enough.
The strong-ribb'd bark through liquid mountains cut,
When thou hast stolen away from fairy land,
What can be their business
Where is the queen?
A counsellor, a traitress, and a dear;
You must sing a-down a-down,
Will prove as bitter, black, and tragical.
At your request! yes; nightingales answer daws.
Good, very good; it is so then: good, very good;
Which you knew none of yours: what might you think?
Takes prisoner the wild motion of mine eye,
The supposition of the lady's death
Kills me to look on't. Let there be no honour
I would esteem him worth a dozen such.
Let me not think on't--Frailty, thy name is woman!--
And therefore, if you say no more than this,
I'll warrant him for drowning; though the ship were
Why, lamb! why, lady! fie, you slug-a-bed!
Come from the farthest Steppe of India?
A blessed lottery to him.
From envious malice of thy swelling heart.
By your firm promise: Gremio is out-vied.
Stab them, or tear them on thy chariot-wheels;
Can be but brief; for I have made him know
By one that I'll procure to come to thee,
Sweno, the Norways' king, craves composition:
rude multitude call the afternoon.
I may command where I adore;
Freedom lives hence, and banishment is here.
Whence are you, sir? what may I call your name?
she's a changeling and none of your flesh and blood.
If we prevail, their heads shall pay for it:
That this shall be, or we will fall for it?
His currish riddles sort not with this place.
Your loss is as yourself, great; and you bear it
By welkin and her star!
Sole sir o' the world,
My heart prays for him, though my tongue do curse.
See, not a man in private conference
They crave to be demanded. Who is this
You tender to her; that you in all obey her,
Your worth, your greatness and nobility.
'Tis more, 'tis more, his son is elder, sir;
Why day is day, night night, and time is time,
I left him well.
That acts my words. The younger brother, Cadwal,
to second your attempt, and he shall fall between
Here comes a man; let's stay till he be past.
Of disposition gentle, and of wisdom
Come hither, man. I see that thou art poor:
Like a dull actor now,
Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone
But sorrow, that is couch'd in seeming gladness,
You shall have wine enough, my lord, anon.
even then lost when it was found. But O, the noble
I should think so: he hath sent me an earnest
Thou fumblest, Eros; and my queen's a squire
To execute the charge my father gave me
A peevish self-will'd harlotry it is.
If I do vow a friendship, I'll perform it
So was I when your highness banish'd him:
Then let us both be sudden.
That took away the match from Isabel,
Let is be so: yet have I left a daughter,
return to bed; yet all this while in a most fast sleep.
Leontes, king of Sicilia, thou art here accused and
And that no man might draw short breath today
bonnet unbanded, your sleeve unbuttoned, your shoe
And with the same full state paced back again
Know that this gold must coin a stratagem,
Go to the feast, revel and domineer,
Unclasp, unclasp:
That part of tyranny that I do bear
Sir, a whole history.
See, Reignier, see, thy daughter prisoner!
the letter, for the nomination of the party writing
See, where he lies inhearsed in the arms
As jewels in crystal for some prince to buy;
valorous, and thrice-worthy signieur of England.
Of author's pen or actor's voice, but suited
How long continued, and what stock he springs of,
What, quite unmann'd in folly?
what is't?
Of man and beast the infinite malady
What should I speak?
I know thou dost.
As to my ample hope was promised
Great business must be wrought ere noon:
more approbation than ever proof itself would have
In sooth he might; then, if he were my brother's,
And haste her to the purpose.
To tell you plain, I had rather lie in prison.
True as you said, Timon is shrunk indeed;
Thy father's court? for thou shalt hear that I,
Who sitting in the stocks refuge their shame,
As we have warrantise: her death was doubtful;
Were to us all, that do't and suffer it,
Both taxing me and gaging me to keep
hath the finest mad devil of jealousy in him,
I'll make a fat pair of gallows; for if I hang, old
Why, madam, have I offer'd love for this
Pardon us, sir; with us at sea it hath been still
Proceed, proceed	I'll give her.
And these our ships, you happily may think
No, sir,'twas never my desire yet to trouble the
And sing them loud even in the dead of night;
But such a headstrong potent fault it is,
The let-alone lies not in your good will.
What's his name?
E'er since I can remember.
How easy is it, then! Your constancy
I should sin
A thousand blushing apparitions
Ah, that thy father had been so resolved!
Cog their hearts from them, and come home beloved
But self-affrighted tremble at his sin.
But for our hearts, he knows no more of mine,
Stands on me to defend, not to debate.
And for whose death we in the world's wide mouth
Should be inheritrix in Salique land:
A villain.
Enter SIR ANDREW
Who is of Rome worse hated than of you,
As ever in ambitious strength I did
Till they obey the manage. If we suffer,
But jealous souls will not be answer'd so;
Exeunt LUCILIUS and TITINIUS
Travel you far on, or are you at the farthest?
Stands in attainder of eternal shame:
I'll pray a thousand prayers for thy death,
And though you think that all, as you have done,
From the two parties, forsooth.
Dearly my delicate Ariel. Do not approach
Under pretence to see the queen his aunt--
All, all; and, moreover, God saw him when he was
Since presently your souls must part your bodies--
And when she weeps, weeps every little flower,
The best I can, my lord.
There's some conceit or other likes him well,
This be not cherish'd.
More bound to 's mother; yet here he lets me prate
You would have them always play but one thing?
I know none of that name, lady: there was none such
Till the last step have brought me to my love;
And, as the jest did glance away from me,
What, art thou ashamed of me?
Madam, not now: I am very ill at ease,
testament; with that I will go buy my fortunes.
rough, and will not be roughly used.
This news hath made thee a most ugly man.
But how, but how? give me particulars.
And Prospero the prime duke, being so reputed
Enter, from opposite sides, a Fairy, and PUCK
So every scope by the immoderate use
I like the work well: ere it be demanded--
There is no seeming mercy in the king.
Ladies and maids their scarfs and handkerchers,
I can create the rest: virtue and she
Where is the Earl of Wiltshire? where is Bagot?
Why, Marcus, no man should be mad but I.
The very persons of our noble story
Make it their walk.
Kneels
Seizes and disarms her
But two months dead: nay, not so much, not two:
he is with that which makes him both without and within.
Nay, if I keep not my rank,--
Which I had recommended to his use
For your desire to know what is between us,
it is but heading and hanging.
leap-frog, or by vaulting into my saddle with my
Exeunt
enough to make such knaveries yours.
Like a Colossus, and we petty men
If they hold when their ladies bid 'em clap.
To give their censure of these rare reports.
This night englutted! Who is not Timon's?
Enter ANTONIO and SEBASTIAN
A lack, when once our grace we have forgot,
I'll tell my husband, Launcelot, what you say: here he comes.
The ancient Roman honour more appears
As loath to lose him, not your father's death;
Nature hath meal and bran, contempt and grace.
Know that our griefs are risen to the top,
And thou art wedded to calamity.
Your lordships, that, whenever you have need,
Hear him debate of commonwealth affairs,
An angry brow, dread lord.
Enter a troop of Citizens
To give it from me.
The worser welcome:
'Tis hard to reconcile.
Till the rough seas, that spare not any man,
Which in the time of Henry named the Fifth
Biondello, what of that?
Shall outstrike thought: but thought will do't, I feel.
While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred.
He shall not make me there a joyful bride.
No, lord ambassador, I'll rather keep
The hateful mansion.
Others would say 'Where, which is Bolingbroke?'
fellow be looked to:' fellow! not Malvolio, nor
DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO.'
Exit
Enter Thisbe
O grandsire, grandsire! even with all my heart
And I do fear them.
At thy great glory. Look not to the ground,
He solemnly had sworn, that what he spoke
Well may it sort that this portentous figure
The fiery Tybalt, with his sword prepared,
We have descried, upon our neighbouring shore,
full ripe: now we speak upon our cue, and our voice
The fruits of love I mean, my loving liege.
are chosen, they are glad to choose me for them; I
What, to perverseness? you uncivil lady,
By your good favour, too sharp; men so noble,
Whither dost thou go?
My sword, my chariot and my prisoners;
peace and plenty.'
To him from whom you brought them.
Enter Pyramus and Thisbe, Wall, Moonshine, and Lion
Would then be nothing: truths would be tales,
the duke we talk of were returned again: the
It is a surplus of your grace, which never
SCENE II. London. The palace.
For swallowing the treasure of the realm:
From every tree lop, bark, and part o' the timber;
You start away
A pack of sorrows which would press you down,
Why, he is very young: and yet will he, within
And you, sir.
Exeunt VOLTIMAND and CORNELIUS
generally thankful.
The envious slanders of her false accusers;
Exeunt all but WARWICK
Give him a statue with his ancestors.
Let me entreat, for I command no more,
Where biting cold would never let grass grow,
And by the second hour in the morning
Exeunt
And doctors learn'd: first I began in private
He did entreat me, past all saying nay,
And call'd them blind and dusky spectacles,
Tends to God's glory and my country's weal.
Some little memory of me will stir him--
But I, who never knew how to entreat,
Gracious triumpher in the eyes of Rome!
In a cowslip's bell I lie;
thou wilt have none,--
Sir, you of Troy, call you yourself AEneas?
Sir Robert might have eat his part in me
You shall hear. As good luck would have it, comes
For ever should they be expulsed from France
And thrust thyself into their companies:
[Aside to CLARENCE]  Yea, is it so?
Laying down her dagger
How possibly preserved; and who to thank,
renowned brother, in his love toward her ever most
Yea, Troilus? O, well fought, my youngest brother!
I have a servant comes with me along,
You are the most immediate to our throne;
Re-enter DESDEMONA, attended
of hay: good hay, sweet hay, hath no fellow.
As I intended, for it wrought on her
Though tongues were out of use.
Shall be the surety for their traitor father.
What mean you?
O Lord, sir, they would know
His madness is poor Hamlet's enemy.
Your lordship ever binds him.
His favour is familiar to me. Boy,
And see it instantly consumed with fire;
Is this the Lady Cressid?
O, Heaven be judge how I love Valentine,
That Lewis of France is sending over masquers
into the Park: we two must go together.
So farewell, Talbot; I'll no longer trust thee.
A city on the inconstant billows dancing;
Of roaring, shrieking, howling, jingling chains,
I will go meet the ladies. This Volumnia
If, Tullus,
It is apparent foul play; and 'tis shame
Repast them with my blood.
Dishonour not her honourable name,
And no way canst thou turn thee for redress,
think my master is a kind of a knave: but that's
O hound of Crete, think'st thou my spouse to get?
With league whose date till death shall never end.
What news? what news?
The smallest monstrous mouse that creeps on floor,
The gods are just, and of our pleasant vices
Rise from the ground like feather'd Mercury,
No way to that, for weakness, which she enter'd.
Exeunt
Re-enter KING CLAUDIUS and POLONIUS
As I have such a heart that both mine ears
Exeunt
That I did love thee, Caesar, O, 'tis true:
Who knows if one of her women, being corrupted,
That can make vile things precious. Come,
It was the lark, the herald of the morn,
Ay, nurse; what of that? both with an R.
That aged ears play truant at his tales
'Tis well said again;
In whose success we are gentle,--I beseech you,
I am sorry for't:
Hath made thy person for the thrower-out
revenue: then your hose should be ungartered, your
Both our inventions meet and jump in one.
Never was seen so black a day as this:
This day I breathed first: time is come round,
Nay, do not quarrel with us, good old man.
Indeed, sir, if your metaphor stink, I will stop my
Thy thoughts I cleave to. What's thy pleasure?
betwixt us. Farewell, dear sister: farewell, my
Alas, our frailty is the cause, not we!
Return to the tribunes.
and I know not what use to put her to but to make a
When haply he shall hear that she is gone,
For I was spoke to, with Sir Henry Guildford
Their heads, I mean. O, how this villany
We are advertised by our loving friends
And having brought our treasure where we will,
enfreedoming thy person; thou wert immured,
Enter KING, HELENA, and Attendants. LAFEU and PAROLLES retire
But died thy sister of her love, my boy?
This mutiny were better put in hazard,
To have him suddenly convey'd away.
his poll-axe sitting on a close-stool, will be given
Our potency made good, take thy reward.
Will ever after droop. Here cease more questions:
He'll make a proper man: the best thing in him
Believe me, lords, were none more wise than I--
From Tamworth thither is but one day's march.
Are led so grossly by this meddling priest,
That brought her for this high good turn so far?
Their purpose is to parle, to court and dance;
Touch me not so near:
Re-enter SIR TOBY BELCH and FABIAN
Peace, ho! Hear Antony. Most noble Antony!
her their boots.
himself is in love with Mistress Anne Page: but
Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd,
Re-enter BARDOLPH, running
Ere I will my virgin patent up
Too ceremonious and traditional
As this their jangling I esteem a sport.
Have got a speeding trick to lay down ladies;
Crying, his stones, his daughter, and his ducats.
That there be women do abuse their husbands
Did I deserve no more than a fool's head?
Have, sure, more lack of reason. What would you say?
But I must needs to the Tower, my lords?
Drove back again unto my native clime?
Cold news, Lord Somerset: but God's will be done!
I care not what, so it be wholesome food.
You wrong me, Signior Gremio: give me leave.
Enter SILVIA above
That he is too familiar with his wife.
Marcus, my brother! 'tis sad Titus calls.
be sworn: for my own part, I came in late. What
Yes, and will nobly him remunerate.
To give the enemy way, and to secure us
By the second hour i' the morn.
Hath spoken well and justly: therefore, madam,
By Juno, that is queen of marriage,
Than all the rest, discharged me with these words:
That Herod's head
JULIET appears above at a window
With the help of your good hands:
The other down, unseen and full of water:
this instant to build on thee a better opinion than
SCENE IV. Forres. The palace.
He pours it out; Plutus, the god of gold,
Go with me to my tent; where you shall see
Which being violently borne upon,
But where the greater malady is fix'd,
Though you are old enough to be my heir.
Heralds, from off our towers we might behold,
Is this Ascension-day? Did not the prophet
And built so shelving that one cannot climb it
Hath gained thy daughter princely liberty.
Sir, understand you this of me in sooth:
And laid the love-juice on some true-love's sight:
Yes, you have seen Cassio and she together.
Re-enter HORTENSIO, with his head broke
Are you a maid?
Fool, there was never a man so notoriously abused: I
And what's the news, good cousin Lodovico?
My business cannot brook this dalliance.
Or in the heart, or in the head?
Twenty crowns.
You may, sir.
These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
I am sorry to hear this.
Exeunt
Giving a gentle kiss to every sedge
Thou art too like the spirit of Banquo: down!
Nor a musician, as I seem to be;
Signior Lodovico?
What's to be done?
but an islander, that hath lately suffered by a
Come hither, come hither, come hither:
Now thou'rt troublesome.
Under the which is writ 'Invitis nubibus.'
Between his purpose and his conscience,
No marvel, though you bite so sharp at reasons,
Soft, swain, awhile, beseech you;
When I perceive your grace, like power divine,
Whose footing here anticipates our thoughts
Enter Pyramus
Froissart, a countryman of ours, records,
By whose direction found'st thou out this place?
Of this oppressed boy: this is thy eld'st son's son,
a face as yours were.
We here create you Earl of Shrewsbury;
not, hold your tongues.
art thou not drowned, Stephano? I hope now thou art
ACT I
Then homeward every man attach the hand
No, I defy all counsel, all redress,
Do you not jest?
That thou so oft have boasted to retain?
Shall kin with kin and kind with kind confound;
Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness,
It is the worst, and all, my lord, he writes.
Or I'll attach you by this officer.
Marry, I thank your worship for it. Thou seest, thou
extempore. The prince himself is about a piece of
be pardoned.
And humble service till the point of death.
[To POLIXENES]                  Sir, welcome:
Ay, Lepidus.
And every object that might make me fear
For which, if I be lapsed in this place,
My father's spirit in arms! all is not well;
Have thou the ordering of this present time.
And, like a forester, the groves may tread,
Shrouded in cloth of state; balm'd and entreasured
Mark'd ye his words? He would not take the crown;
And therefore, personally I lay my claim
The dogs o' the street to bay me: every villain
[Aside]	Too hot, too hot!
Unto his honour, has my lord's meat in him:
Well, go to; we'll have no bastards live;
Shall follow in your conduct speedily.
king best service in the end: he keeps them, like
And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
I left him private,
Do crave admittance to your majesty.
Give her an hundred marks. I'll to the queen.
O, peace! the friar is come.
Anon, sir.
Of that quick spirit that is in Antony.
All with weary task fordone.
Great Media, Parthia, and Armenia.
one man but he will wear his cap with suspicion?
Grants scarce distinction. Thou wilt write to Antony!
O happy horse, to bear the weight of Antony!
I have one word to say to you: look you, my good lord,
Let's see;
Here is himself, marr'd, as you see, with traitors.
snorting like a horse.
To RICHMOND
For which, I hope, thou felt'st I was displeased.
If thou art taken: hence, be gone, away!
My honour'd lord.
I will, my lord: God give your grace good rest!
If it be possible for you to displace it with your
The best is past. Brother, my lord the duke,
A fool go with thy soul, whither it goes!
He wish'd to-day our enterprise might thrive.
My husband!
How follows that?
Enter SIMPLE
Nor with such free and friendly conference,
I know thee well; thou hast obtain'd thy suit:
Whew! A plague upon you all! Give me my horse, you
Come, sister,--cousin, I would say--pray, pardon me.
Even now I curse the day--and yet, I think,
Doth very foolishly, although he smart,
When sects and factions were newly born:
hair, complexion, height, age, with warrant of her
Than in possession and jot of pleasure.
We put fresh garments on him.
Direct me, if it be your will,
The last true duties of thy noble son!
But if you fondly pass our proffer'd offer,
A beard, fair health, and honesty;
Confess yourselves wondrous malicious,
too dear a halfpenny. Were you not sent for? Is it
The Duke of Exeter doth love thee well.
The duke my father loved his father dearly.
Still live they and for ever may they last!
Sir Thomas Lovell, I as free forgive you
Too slow a messenger.
'Tis not unknown to you, madam, I am a poor fellow.
All Kent hath yielded; nothing there holds out
I'll find a thousand shifts to get away:
Make thy demand.
I think 'twill serve, if he
You shall have me assisting you in all.
Unless things mortal move them not at all,
Why, to keep one's eyes of either side's nose; that
O, this same thought did but forerun my need;
How mean you, sir? I pretty, and my saying apt? or
Because some tell me that thou art a king.
questions in his accidence.
They are apt enough to dislocate and tear
And ever three parts coward, I do not know
My daughter weeps: she will not part with you;
it is mended--my quarrel was not altogether slight.
Go seek him there.
More hateful than the foul expulsion is
Brave York, Salisbury, and victorious Warwick,
Enter LUCIUS with an army of Goths, with drum and colours
And the wolf behowls the moon;
I pray, awake, sir: if you love the maid,
How many is one thrice told?
Nor, as we are, we say we will not shun it:
Immediate are my needs, and my relief
You greet with present grace and great prediction
Cut off the sequence of posterity,
SCENE II. The Mart.
And his kinsman too.
That taught his son the office of a fowl!
Save yourself, my lord:
And so to study, three years is but short.
And razure of oblivion. Give me your hand,
From chance to chance: but nor the time nor place
Not stingless too.
We have some secrets to confer about.
heritage: and I think I shall never have the
Beseeching him to give her virtuous breeding--
Heaven hath through me restored the king to health.
The witch in Smithfield shall be burn'd to ashes,
Our father's love is to the bastard Edmund
As birds do, mother.
But I will wear my heart upon my sleeve
Exit
Rather than they shall pound us up: our gates,
Why then defy each other and pell-mell
He should, for that, commit your godfathers:
To Bourdeaux, warlike duke! to Bourdeaux, York!
Sith yet there is a credence in my heart,
Weeping again the king my father's wreck,
Enter Haberdasher
But fair posterity, should hold some counsel
Ere one can say 'It lightens.' Sweet, good night!
Re-enter JOAN LA PUCELLE
Who least will seem to do so, my past life
hope, here is a play fitted.
So is he now in execution
Possess'd with rumours, full of idle dreams,
Lucentio! O, he hath murdered his master! Lay hold
Yes, faith, my lord.
But, mighty lord, this merry inclination
And raise some special officers of night.
the moon is never but a month old: and I say beside
My noble Lord of Suffolk, or for that
Your lordship is the most patient man in loss, the
madness; which was, to forswear the full stream of
Helen and Hero hildings and harlots; Thisbe a grey
I wish some ravenous wolf had eaten thee!
Here, madam:
But that of coward hares, hot goats, and venison!
'Tis, then, because thou dost not keep a dog,
So! in the name of Jesu Christ, speak lower. It is
Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
cunning in fence, I'ld have seen him damned ere I'ld
And so adieu, good madam: never more
streets, and no man regards it.
I'll after them.
What shall he have that kill'd the deer?
I thus would play and trifle with your reverence:
Well, but what's o'clock?
good of Rome, I have the same dagger for myself,
And here give up ourselves, in the full bent
Exit, borne off by his Attendants
Thy modesty can beg.
We came again to bind them. Then they fled
An if my hand be out, then belike your hand is in.
Cannot induce you to attend my words,
A man that apprehends death no more dreadfully but
Report is changeable. 'Tis time to look about; the
My learned lord, we pray you to proceed
Hardly conceive of me; let it be noised
This says she now when she is beginning to write to
It's monstrous labour, when I wash my brain,
That trembles under his devouring paws;
What 'tis you go about: to climb steep hills
Alisander the conqueror! You will be scraped out of
which now we'll show 'em in deeds. They say poor
To grubs and eyeless skulls? as I discern,
Celerity is never more admired
If there be devils, would I were a devil,
Marcus Luccicos, is not he in town?
Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
With such things else of quality and respect
The sun to course two hundred compasses,
But since he is better'd, we have therefore odds.
And will no longer have it be delay'd.
while thou livest, keep a good tongue in thy head.
Hail!
Wake, my mistress!
O, what a deal of scorn looks beautiful
As the unsullied lily, I protest,
I wrote the letter that thy father found
Upon my soul,'tis true, sir.
I am a gentleman of blood and breeding;
what we know:
me, Hal; God forgive thee for it! Before I knew
The boy replied, 'An angel is not evil;
Which time will bring to light in smooth
Come weep with me; past hope, past cure, past help!
bill, warrant, quittance, or obligation, 'Armigero.'
O prince! O cousin! husband! O, the blood is spilt
Yonder comes the troop.
With which the time will load him. The archbishop
Are to your throne and state children and servants,
In drops of crimson blood.
Lie not, to say mine eyes are murderers!
On yon proud man, should take it off again
We will not leave one lord, one gentleman:
worst thing about him, how could Master Froth do the
Dorset, embrace him; Hastings, love lord marquess.
Your mind is tossing on the ocean;
Rose at an instant, learn'd, play'd, eat together,
Flourish. Exeunt
Come to our pavilion: Boyet is disposed.
Thou pray'st not well.
How shall I feast him? what bestow of him?
As a fair day in summer, wondrous fair.
That, to deserve well at my brother's hands,
For Brutus, as you know, was Caesar's angel:
The fair Ophelia! Nymph, in thy orisons
O, that my tongue were in the thunder's mouth!
A lady wall'd about with diamonds!
The devil take Henry of Lancaster and thee!
Will you, indeed?
a hare: his dishonesty appears in leaving his
In what thou hadst to say: so, with good life
That we may wake the king: he hath slept long.
Our paragon to all reports thus blasted,
father; for the king's son took me by the hand, and
And in a captive chariot into Rouen
His prayers are full of false hypocrisy;
Against them both my true joints bended be.
Exeunt
nose for thy speeches?
May they perceive's intent! He will require them,
Hirtius and Pansa, consuls, at thy heel
one, sir, in this interlude; one Sir Topas, sir; but
Exit
Their sacred wills be done! Go, get aboard;
Therefore, since law itself is perfect wrong,
Enter a Servant
Be factious for redress of all these griefs,
'Tis well bethought.
contented as in the king's company; his cause being
no more pains for those thanks than you took pains
If Timon stay at home. You three serve three usurers?
sympathy? Let it suffice thee, Mistress Page,--at
That makes these odds all even.
When sapless age and weak unable limbs
price they will.
Thou art the best o' the cut-throats: yet he's good
Got my lord chamberlain his liberty.
in a book; he hath not eat paper, as it were; he
[Aside]  Well, I could reply:
O, she knew well
Are journeying to salute the emperor
For thus his royalty doth speak in me.
But buckle with thee blows, twice two for one.
Pardon is all the suit I have in hand.
That you should think, we come not to offend,
To swear by him whom I protest to love,
[Aside]  Ay, and as good as Saturninus may.
And to commend their service to his will.
That will betime, and may by us be fitted.
The trumpets sound. Enter KING HENRY IV, PRINCE  HENRY, LORD JOHN LANCASTER, EARL OF WESTMORELAND, with WORCESTER and VERNON prisoners
or nine year: a tanner will last you nine year.
And die, ere men can say, God save the queen!
BISHOP
Once did I get him bound and sent him home,
Nay, either tell me where thou hast been, or I will
I was my chamber's prisoner.
say her mind freely, or the blank verse shall halt
And, had I first been put to speak my mind,
And keep the gate of hell!
A good soft pillow for that good white head
Enter QUINCE, SNUG, BOTTOM, FLUTE, SNOUT, and STARVELING
How now, my as fair as noble ladies,--and the moon,
Is there no voice more worthy than my own
Exeunt GLOUCESTER and EXETER
Health and glad tidings to your majesty!
But, orderly to end where I begun,
Exeunt HENRY PERCY and Lords
Making them lightest that wear most of it:
Where foxes, geese: you are no surer, no,
speaks with the tongue of an enemy be a good
Hooking both right and wrong to the appetite,
And you by land.
Art thou my son?
Nor cheque my courage for what they can give,
Upon our spiritual convocation
O your sweet queen!
She is herself a dowry.
Ay, and he'll tame her.
A treacherous army levied, one midnight
He whispers in his ear
And welcome, Somerset: I hold it cowardice
The interim, pray you, all confound.
Calls virtue hypocrite, takes off the rose
Enter LYCHORIDA, with an Infant
Shall we be sunder'd? shall we part, sweet girl?
Enter DUKE SENIOR, AMIENS, JAQUES, ORLANDO, OLIVER, and CELIA
Besides her urging of her wreck at sea,--
The Third Knight passes over
Lo, in this right hand, whose protection
Brought hither in a most unlucky hour,
No more light answers. Let our officers
Sweet father, if I shall be thought thy son,
Give me thy fist, thy fore-foot to me give:
O, ominous! he comes to kill my heart.
Where is she and her son? tell me, who knows.
Induced by potent circumstances, that
And see another, as I see thee now,
I know not at whose suit he is arrested well;
I'll be his surety.
And Sir John Stanley is appointed now
Look to the lady:
little finger, there is some hope the ladies of
Transform'd and weaken'd? hath Bolingbroke deposed
Who ever saw the like? what men have I!
So much I challenge that I may profess
Romeo! humours! madman! passion! lover!
It is shaped, sir, like itself; and it is as broad
his mouth, and promise, like Brabbler the hound:
To the Venetian state. Come, bring him away.
O, touch me not; I am not Stephano, but a cramp.
To make prescription for a kingdom's worth.
Exeunt Executioners
Unworthy brother, and unworthy sons!
I'll have no halves; I'll bear it all myself.
Where should he find it fairer than in Blanch?
flown, bird! i' the clout, i' the clout: hewgh!
Into the chantry by: there, before him,
To think our former state a happy dream;
And brought from thence the Thracian fatal steeds,
Most heartily to pray for her.
March'd toward Saint Alban's to intercept the queen,
For beasts that meet me run away for fear:
inviting, which many my near occasions did urge me
CYMBELINE and IMOGEN converse apart
But I'll unto his majesty, and crave
Shrunk to this little measure? Fare thee well.
Arm, arm, you heavens, against these perjured kings!
And, with the rest full-mann'd, from the head of Actium
Upbraided me about the rose I wear;
Elizabeth.
He childed as I father'd! Tom, away!
But he bears both the sentence and the sorrow
From a well-experienced archer hits the mark
Wherein I thee endow'd.
Whose bright out-shining beams thy cloudy wrath
Then, on the other side, I cheque'd my friends.
will predominate over the peasant, and thou shalt
And yet the spacious breadth of this division
Reads
As I do thee.--Something too much of this.--
No, madam, no; I may not leave it so:
youth of the count's was today with thy lady, she is
harmless fairy, monster.
Whose honour heaven shield from soil!--even he
She knew her distance and did angle for me,
desires to speak with you both.
man if you see him?
Clamber not you up to the casements then,
discourse is sometime guarded with fragments, and
clothes; but I am now, sir, muddied in fortune's
There's place and means for every man alive.
And yet I bear a burthen like an ass,
Nor I.
His good sword in his hand.
Commend me to him: I will send his ransom;
The changeling never known. Now, the next day
advantage of hope. I will indeed no longer endure
He is my prisoner: if I let him go,
Nay, before God, Hal, if Percy be alive, thou get'st
It was well done of you to take him at his word.
How full of valour did he bear himself
Exit
That thought her like her seeming; it had
Ay me! for aught that I could ever read,
I know not, madam.
DON
Even for your son's sake; and thereby for sealing
I have already delivered him letters, and there
Prithee, away.
I will your very faithful feeder be
have a sword and it shall bite upon my necessity.
The lives of those that he did lead to fight
Charming your blood with pleasing heaviness,
Those prisoners you shall keep.
Now all the youth of England are on fire,
But wherefore do you hold me here so long?
For 'tis not life that I have begg'd so long;
And be received for the emperor's heir,
Whose double tongue may with a mortal touch
When I have fought with Pembroke and his fellows,
But bent all offices to honour her.
By Jove, if ever I knew man, 'twas you.
Make gallant show and promise of their mettle;
Our hands are full of business: let's away;
matters grow to your likings.
BISHOP
consent to die this day, that's certain.
Alcibiades banished!
And on the wager lay two earthly women,
Which he enforced from me, away he posts
Ha, no, no, faith; thou singest well enough for a shift.
Pray God it be, sir.
Arise; one knocks; good Romeo, hide thyself.
the best and the fairest, that would have won any
Pardon me, madam, for I meant not so.
I'll raise the preparation of a war
are old men: tell me one thing that I shall ask you.
My wayward husband hath a hundred times
When we may profit meet, and come too late.
The offence is not of such a bloody nature;
I'll leave you to confer of home affairs;
And you shall be satisfied.
Or thrive by other means.
For none offend where all alike do dote.
Yet am I arm'd against the worst can happen;
Mark you this, people?
Et tu, Brute! Then fall, Caesar.
do, chapels had been churches and poor men's
Fail not our feast.
Call'd Robin Goodfellow: are not you he
And, see, a book of prayer in his hand,
Of deaths put on by cunning and forced cause,
A half-faced groat five hundred pound a year!
That hardly we escaped the pride of France.
Therefore let's have fresh ones, whate'er we pay for
If, by the tribunes' leave, and yours, good people,
And so extenuate the 'forehand sin:
My herald thoughts in thy pure bosom rest them:
hath, at a word, he hath, believe me: Robert
I will make my very house reel tonight: a letter for
another's dotage, and no such matter: that's the
Most military sir, salutation.
With what encounter so uncurrent I
Well ratified by law and heraldry,
I hope the king is not yet shipp'd for Ireland.
To have the due and forfeit of my bond:
'Tis true, my liege; this ring I had of her.
I'll live by Nym, and Nym shall live by me;
Good morrow.
Re-enter DENNY, with CRANMER
Heaven keep that monster from Othello's mind!
Marry, and it shall be done to-morrow morning, if I
Nine! Come hither to me, Master Froth. Master
Come, sir, you peevishly threw it to her; and her
Never went with his forces into France
Pray thee, marry us.
Being most unfit to live. I have made you mad;
is a sore decayer of your whoreson dead body.
Hold, patience!
the parliament of England.
No question.
And I for Ganymede.
conclusion, Pish! But, sir, be you ruled by me: I
Sweet Kate, embrace her for her beauty's sake.
What, ho, Barnardine!
How prettily the young swain seems to wash
May be a coward's; whose ministers would prevail
SCENE IV. Country near Birnam wood.
Thy spirits are most tall.
You can do better yet; but this is meetly.
But now, I tell thee--keep it to thyself--
Our parents and us twain,
O me! you juggler! you canker-blossom!
Exeunt HUBERT with PETER
Prove that I husbanded her bed in Florence,
Like prisoners wildly overgrown with hair,
Richly in both, if justice had her right.
To propagate their states: amongst them all,
I would not be a young count in your way,
[Reads]  'When he swears oaths, bid him drop gold, and take it;
This forwardness
I'll give thee a wind.
Suppose the singing birds musicians,
I every day expect an embassage
Out of this world; tell him, in death I bless'd him,
By hers and mine adultery. He, true knight,
Than women's are.
'One Sir Andrew,'--
It is impossible they bear it out.
The unknown Ajax.
That will encounter with our glorious sun,
Be sad, as we would make ye: think ye see
Will have fulfill'd their secret purposes;
The silver livery of advised age,
Come, my lord, and in our flight
E'en as Apemantus does now; hate a lord with my heart.
Exit
When gallant-springing brave Plantagenet,
When all our pageants of delight were play'd,
Why do you cross me in this exigent?
And what a prisoner.
Send out a pursuivant at arms
Right; so I say.
O, they love least that let men know their love.
Commend me to the princes in our camp;
To visit her poor castle where she lies,
To be so rid o' the business.
Thine own true knight,
Till Hymen's torch be lighted: but vain;
And this is Trojan; the sinews of this leg
Content. What is the wager?
Alas, how is't with you,
am now in great haste, as it may appear unto you.
Say as he says, or we shall never go.
Now take upon me, in the name of Time,
Come, come, I'll hear no more of this; I'll sing
SCENE V. London. The palace.
every wink of an eye some new grace will be born:
The icy precepts of respect, but follow'd
The statue of her mother.
Ere he express himself, or move the people
Only give order for my funeral:
Then never trust me, if I be afeard.
Keep his brain fuming; Epicurean cooks
So be it, for it cannot be but so.
Exeunt
nor reason?
Exit
And many strokes, though with a little axe,
So vulgarly and personally accused,
Good my lord, be quiet.
have missingly noted, he is of late much retired
The Apparitions vanish
ourselves we publish them.
Thus far, with rough and all-unable pen,
Did, with his iron tongue and brazen mouth,
O Cromwell,
Smile in men's faces, smooth, deceive and cog,
By my troth, well met. Come, sit, sit, and a song.
And little of this great world can I speak,
And Somerset, with Oxford fled to her:
For all the frosty nights that I have watch'd;
I know't too well.
Mad ire and wrathful fury makes me weep,
Exit
The county's man: he left this ring behind him,
Mistress, what cheer?
They're come already from the christening:
Withdraw, my lord; I'll help you to a horse.
Veni, vidi, vici; which to annothanize in the
That she would never put it from her finger,
Lady,
friar's mouth, nay, as the pudding to his skin.
And bury all thy fear in my devices.
in whose name myself
Which first was mine own king: and here you sty me
Of woman in me: now from head to foot
Both too; and women's sons.
What have you to do here, fellow? Pray you, avoid
Infer the bastardy of Edward's children:
Was call'd Belarius.
For it was bad enough before their spite.
with me last night; who, if alive and ever dare to
Worthily term'd them merciless to us!
Caesar himself has work, and our oppression
Arise, dissembler: though I wish thy death,
They are but burs, cousin, thrown upon thee in
Tooth'd briers, sharp furzes, pricking goss and thorns,
That Silvia, at Friar Patrick's cell, should meet me.
[Reads]  'that shallow vassal,'--
My lord, as I was sewing in my closet,
the humour of it is too hot, that is the very
And Phoebus 'gins arise,
The Tuscan service, freely have they leave
See how belief may suffer by foul show!
Most potent, grave, and reverend signiors,
O, take her home, mistress, take her home: these
What! he did not?
But, on my honour, she was charged with nothing
I could do more to do Antonius good,
The congregated college have concluded
Enter PEMBROKE, SALISBURY, and BIGOT
[Aside]  I am glad thou hast set thy mercy and
And then, to purge his fear, I'll be thy death.
Against black pagans, Turks, and Saracens:
in the next room.
brother the new duke; and three or four loving lords
To make me fight at land!
anon; 'tis a knavish piece of work: but what o'
Iago is most honest.
Forbids to dwell upon: yet remember this,
And most pernicious purpose! Seeming, seeming!
To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt:
I go, Andronicus: and for thy hand
You are there followed by a faithful shepherd;
And fled, as he hears since, to Burgundy.
Is that any thing now?
Either that is thine, or else thou wert not his.
Exeunt above DUCHESS and HUME, guarded
I have some of 'em in Limbo Patrum, and there they
these exhalations?
And I, an ass, am onion-eyed: for shame,
Let the bloat king tempt you again to bed;
Can speak like us: then wisely, good sir, weigh
If he outlive the envy of this day,
With his weak function. How am I then a villain
O good sir, my master charged me to deliver a ring
And e'er-remaining lamps, the belching whale
Now, by God's will, thou wrong'st him, Somerset;
Arm, arm, my name! a puny subject strikes
withdrawn her father to break with him about it.
Thy full petition at the hand of Brutus!
Then, heigh-ho, the holly!
Unburthen'd crawl toward death. Our son of Cornwall,
Stands without blemish. Next, it imports no reason
What's your will?
And sundry blessings hang about his throne,
What, with worms and flies?
For he that steeps his safety in true blood
Hermione hath suffer'd death, and that
I and my bosom must debate awhile,
Yet looks he like a king: behold, his eye,
By our best eyes cannot be censured:
SCENE II. Entrance of the Volscian camp before Rome.
My horse to yours, no.
Good Marcius home again.
To think me as well a sister as a wife,
I nill relate, action may
Enter ISABELLA and MARIANA
Not all thy counsel.
Who's that which rings the bell?--Diablo, ho!
Would to the bleeding and the grim alarm
Lysander, whereto tends all this?
Yes, marry, did I	but I was fain to forswear it;
A lovely boy, stolen from an Indian king;
Sirrah, look to't; i' faith, I will, i' faith.
My wife is slippery? If thou wilt confess,
Upon his visage, and that all the walls
Though great ones are their object. 'Tis even so;
Even for his sake am I pitiless.
One good woman in ten, madam; which is a purifying
I would not be ambitious in my wish,
That thy rebellion looks so giant-like?
Come, come, away.
Lies down and sleeps
And till I root out their accursed line
Denmark's a prison.
So with his steerage shall your thoughts grow on,--
wear his sting? In his tail.
May one, that is a herald and a prince,
Go, captain, from me greet the Danish king;
A twelvemonth! well; befall what will befall,
Whether these pearls of praise be his or no;
I will hear that play;
I bade her come. What, lamb! what, ladybird!
due of a bawd, why, 'tis his right: bawd is he
No more can I be sever'd from your side,
To please the fool and death.
Away, I say; time wears: hold up your head, and mince.
How the young whelp of Talbot's, raging-wood,
Believe what?
That you have such a February face,
When I was mortal, my anointed body
According to the gift which bounteous nature
Enter Chorus
We are merely cheated of our lives by drunkards:
Did will what he did spend and spent not that
As they fell out by time, by means and place,
You shall be welcome, madam, to my court.
With instruments upon them, fit to open
So to the Moor.
His own conceiving.--Hark, the game is roused!
The same I am, ere ancient'st order was
John, here is the heart of my purpose: you are a
You are too officious
You are too much mistaken in this king:
The Dauphin, whom of succors we entreated,
ANTIPHOLUS
And shooting well is then accounted ill.
SCENE II. Athens. QUINCE'S house.
To prick the sides of my intent, but only
There's never a one of you but trusts a knave,
is prodigious, there will come some change; the sun
By putting on the destined livery.
Which troubles oft the bed of blessed marriage,
And prey on garbage.
Our wagon is prepared, and time revives us:
I am no more touch'd than all Priam's sons:
So kind to heart, 'tis not enough to give;
In moral fury half so peremptory,
Successively from age to age, he built it?
I attend them with all respect and duty.
Wherein we are not destitute for want,
You are deceived; my child is none of his:
SCENE VI. Another part of the field.
SCENE I. Messina. POMPEY's house.
Which she, with pretty and with swimming gait
SCENE V. The same.
I do believe that these applauses are
Besides, this place is famous for the creatures
within it, reclined on a couch. A barge lying
And as he errs, doting on Hermia's eyes,
Till the prince came, who parted either part.
You are resolute, then?
Exeunt Messenger and certain Lords
I brought my master news of Juliet's death;
Hortensio, to what end are all these words?
To keep us in false gaze. When we consider
a bloody coxcomb too: for the love of God, your
I do not know the French for fer, and ferret, and firk.
Haply I do.
Hector is dead; there is no more to say.
Come, your answer in broken music; for thy voice is
nose; or against any man's metaphor. Prithee, get
Which I have sumptuously re-edified:
Lucilius' Servant	                  Welcome, good brother.
go away merry; but they enter my mistress' house
A Veronesa; Michael Cassio,
We will not fail.
And has done half an hour, to know your pleasures.
Shall break into a hundred thousand flaws,
Then, if you will elect by my advice,
Is oft the cause of fear. But, see, thy brother.
Sir Proteus, as I take it.
favour is well approved by your tongue. What's the
Sits on his horseback at mine hostess' door,
O, ten times faster Venus' pigeons fly
Neglecting an attempt of ease and gain,
These be good humours! your honour wins bad humours.
coach! Good night, ladies; good night, sweet ladies;
What was the offence you gave him?
And, if thou darest, I'll give thee remedy.
And thank you too; for society, saith the text, is
Longing for what it had not; nay, the dust
In the unshrinking station where he fought,
Had you been there, I think you would have begg'd
I am not mad; I know thee well enough:
As certain as I know the sun is fire:
To death or to dishonour; and my end
our noble acceptance of them. Ingratitude is
Ay me, this object kills me!
Your greeting is from him, not from the king.
To penetrative shame, whilst the wheel'd seat
Came in and satisfied him.
Exeunt
right-hand file? do you?
The rather by these arguments of fear,
Disdaining me and throwing favours on
To ease the anguish of a torturing hour?
presence, even the presence of Lord Mortimer, that I
Yea, my good lord.
To tread a measure with you on this grass.
And light thee on thy way to Mantua:
With any strong or vehement importunity;
Why, sir, you know no house nor no such maid,
Doth choke the air with dust: in, and prepare:
But with a rear-ward following Tybalt's death,
And say, 'Lo, there is mad Petruchio's wife,
Sir, you have done this in the fear of God, very
But to recover of us, by strong hand
And unmatch'd wit and judgment: Ferdinand,
God shall be truly known; and those about her
I know our country disposition well;
Farewell, sweet lords: let's meet at Coventry.
Near to her close and consecrated bower,
Death and destruction dog thee at the heels;
How now, my Lord of Worcester! 'tis not well
To part so slightly with your wife's first gift:
stabbed their mothers, they would have done no less.
Whispers a Lord, who goes off in the barge of LYSIMACHUS
Corioli like a planet: now all's his:
Even in the lusty havior of his son.
O, but she is wise.
To keep his anger still in motion.
appelez-vous le pied et la robe?
their will;
He shall unbolt the gates.
To some more fitter place, and that with speed.
Like to a chaos, or an unlick'd bear-whelp
There is some ill a-brewing towards my rest,
And preachers to us all, admonishing
I pray you, come, hold up the jest no higher
find itself abused, begin to heave the gorge,
Iago? O, I am spoil'd, undone by villains!
My throat to thee and to thy ancient malice;
Our queen and all our elves come here anon.
How shall we then dispense with that contract,
Seats herself on the ground
And then, as we have ta'en the sacrament,
subjects afore thee like a flock of wild-geese,
Bedabbled with the dew and torn with briers,
You do yourself wrong, indeed, la!
Such a nature,
Woe to her chance, and damn'd her loathed choice!
me to stay with the Jew. The fiend gives the more
Have so incensed that I am reckless what
I cry you mercy.
As of a knight well-spoken, neat and fine;
Three thousand ducats; 'tis a good round sum.
Let copulation thrive; for Gloucester's bastard son
Ay, my good lord.
Do, do.
A bird of my tongue is better than a beast of yours.
The other night I fell asleep here behind the arras
There, gentle Hermia, may I marry thee;
That may succeed as his inheritor;
Sir, you shall understand what hath befall'n,
All yet seems well; and if it end so meet,
Should raise so great a power without his leave,
Heir to the crown?
Many a matter hath he told to thee,
Call forth Bagot.
No, no, they would not do so foul a deed;
Please it your grace, there is a messenger
Well, sir, then 'twill be dry.
Not easily, I think.
Descend, for you must be my torchbearer.
O that I were a mockery king of snow,
Is not this man jealous?
For in the fatness of these pursy times
SCENE II. A room in the prison.
Before the common distribution, at
By a vain, giddy, shallow, humorous youth,
Knocking within
Promised no less to them?
attributes?
SCENE IV. A street.
Inestimable stones, unvalued jewels,
A father cruel, and a step-dame false;
She will taste as like this as a crab does to a
we be married.
That can less hide his love or hate than he;
I am as poor as you.
Have lost my daughter.
Your man and you are marvellous merry, sir.
The king in this perceives him, how he coasts
What see you in those papers that you lose
ANTIPHOLUS
possible for me to say I loved nothing so well as
'Wind-changing Warwick now can change no more.'
You yours, Orlando, to receive his daughter:
have heard her swear't. Tut, there's life in't,
The duke knows him for no other but a poor officer
Peace!
Swum ashore. man, like a duck: I can swim like a
Is thicker than a cuckold's horn,--or heard,--
disposer is sick.
That doth invert the attest of eyes and ears,
Thou hast my love: is not that neighbourly?
Give him the ring, and bring him, if thou canst,
How Troy was burnt and he made miserable?
With all my heart; and it doth much content me
Let the garden door be shut, and leave me to my hearing.
As Harry Duke of Hereford, were he here.
So call the field to rest; and let's away,
Yet it shall be tempest-tost.
Bring me unto my trial when you will.
Look, when he fawns, he bites; and when he bites,
You had more beard when I last saw you; but your
He stifles her
Say, that the last I spoke was 'Antony,'
Will serve the turn.
To hear from Rome. The Marchioness of Pembroke!
I do assure thee, father, so it is.
Good morrow, prince; good morrow, Claudio:
Reason, you rogue, reason: thinkest thou I'll
To horse, to horse! urge doubts to them that fear.
Cowards die many times before their deaths;
Madam, an hour before the worshipp'd sun
But thou shouldst please me better, wouldst thou weep.
town-crier spoke my lines. Nor do not saw the air
knees! But, sirrah, there's no room for faith,
Printing their proud hoofs i' the receiving earth;
And what I spake, I spake it to my face.
Out, insolent! thy bastard shall be king,
Like an Olympian wrestling: this have I seen;
bitterness of it I now belch from my heart--that she
How is it with our general?
yours, then yours is France and you are mine.
As ever you came of women, come in quickly to Sir
I am now of all humours that have showed themselves
My lords, what to your wisdoms seemeth best,
Speak low, if you speak love.
But first I will release the fairy queen.
Why, this bond is forfeit;
A piece of painting, which I do beseech
What say you? can you love the gentleman?
So did I yours. Good your grace, pardon me;
I prophesy the fearful'st time to thee
Exeunt POMPEY and ABHORSON
But the fair of Rosalind.
Ere we depart, we'll share a bounteous time
Exit
Sure, he does not:
And glow with shame of your proceedings, Hubert:
O, yes, and soundless too;
And down goes all before them. Still be kind,
[Aside]  Villain and he be many miles asunder.--
Think on the Tower and me: despair, and die!
Thou bid'st me beg: this begging is not strange.
chambers, and in the coffers, and in the presses,
A very dishonest paltry boy, and more a coward than
An aged interpreter, though young in days:
Be patient, gentlemen; I choose her for myself:
hence, and left me asleep! I have had a most rare
The violent fit o' the time craves it as physic
And our consent, for better trial of you,
Thyself domestic officers--thine enemy:
Lucius, I will.
This blue-eyed hag was hither brought with child
Much!
solemn talk.
From helmet to the spur all blood he was.
And keep her at my cell till Romeo come;
Fare you well, my dove!
And winds of all the comers kiss'd your sails,
There's many have committed it.
Do it for thy true-love take,
Eye of newt and toe of frog,
Enter PHILOTUS
That's the letter I writ to her friend.
Did Claribel her husband find at Tunis,
Lovell!
More sweet than our blest fields: his royal bird
Why, Harry, do I tell thee of my foes,
Her shoulder is with child.
Know you the hand?
Madam, we'll play at bowls.
Throng'd to!
The sceptre, learning, physic, must
I'll know
Such fear so grew in me, I hither fled,
My lord, where are you? what devise you on?
We see the wind sit sore upon our sails,
O happy vantage of a kneeling knee!
And lean-look'd prophets whisper fearful change;
Richard not far from hence hath hid his head.
If that thou best a devil, I cannot kill thee.
Where have you hid yourself?
In both my eyes he doubly sees himself;
O' my troth, most sweet jests! most incony
How smooth and even they do bear themselves!
Hear while I speak it, love:
Alack, for mercy!
Nay, if you have not, to it again;
May be absolved in English.
For now sits Expectation in the air,
A mellifluous voice, as I am true knight.
Dear lord, you are full of fair words.
Within three hours will fair Juliet wake:
Then in dumb silence will I bury mine,
Re-enter TIMON and FLAVIUS
Or like a star disorb'd? Nay, if we talk of reason,
Unto the commons whom thou hast misled;
Or blood-consuming sighs recall his life,
beast be lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at
What news, Borachio?
True; and a goose for his discretion.
But come at once;
Than I dare blame my weakness: will you see her
And what's he then that says I play the villain?
That touches this my first-born son and heir!
Drum and colours. Enter KING HENRY, GLOUCESTER, and Soldiers
Did instigate the bedlam brain-sick duchess
almost most absolute Alexas, where's the soothsayer
And rock the ground whereon these sleepers be.
To do them good, I would sustain some harm.
Sell me your good report.
Henry the Fifth, that made all France to quake,
Why, that contempt will kill the speaker's heart,
Answer every man directly.
Worthy the note.
A proper title of a peace; and purchased
For shame! in duty bend thy knee to me
more wit than he, to take a fault upon me that he did,
Fresh expectation troubled not the land
To be consorted with the humorous night:
Thus out of season, threading dark-eyed night:
Prizes the virtue that appears in Cassio,
Slow in pursuit, but match'd in mouth like bells,
So then it seems your most offenceful act
Not to be over-ruled. Idle old man,
From her inaidible estate; I say we must not
Desires your visitation, and to be
But in them nature's copy's not eterne.
SCENE I. KING HENRY IV's camp near Shrewsbury.
The execution of it shall make known.
True, madam: he, of all the men that ever my foolish
We can both sing it: if thou'lt bear a part, thou
Kind sister, thanks: we'll enter all together.
no better than picture-like to hang by the wall, if
Obscured in the circle of this forest.
Why?
Augmenting it with tears.
Spurns down her late beloved, all his dependants
What hour now?
Would give it quick consideration, for
would tell twenty.
fellow met me on the way and told me I had unloaded
Yea, but
ANTIPHOLUS
in reputation. Reputation is an idle and most false
They fight: DOUGLAS flies
I wish we may: but yet have I a mind
It nips me unto listening, and thick slumber
Myself, my brother and this grieved count
Yes, madam; but I think your grace,
Strength should be lord of imbecility,
To wear our mortal state to come with her,
So when this thief, this traitor, Bolingbroke,
Tawny-finn'd fishes; my bended hook shall pierce
Flourish. SATURNINUS and BASSIANUS go up into the Capitol
An I might live to see thee married once,
falls from bias of nature; there's father against
To be the aim of every dangerous shot,
As much as I can do, I will effect:
Lords, you that here are under our arrest,
Exit
She is not dead at Tarsus, as she should have been,
Enter the BASTARD
And, like a dew-drop from the lion's mane,
Whereof our uncle Gaunt did stand possess'd.
'Tis too respective and too sociable
A fistula, my lord.
Commend them and condemn them to her service
magnanimous, are all one reckonings, save the phrase
You shall do well; the fault of it I'll answer.
The doom of Egypt.
A very fine one: O, how he loves Caesar!
Why art thou angry?
I am not in the roll of common men.
Their needles to lances, and their gentle hearts
I bought and brought up to attend my sons.
If I know you well,
The queen this day here holds her parliament,
No wonder, sir;
'Tis, my good lord.
Or cloy the hungry edge of appetite
And fiends will snatch at it. Cold, cold, my girl!
Perhaps he sees it not; or his good nature
Which, hearing them, would call their brothers fools.
But with the word the time will bring on summer,
Music i' the air.
That won you without blows! Despising,
Not so, neither:
Within the arras: when I strike my foot
Was re-united to the crown of France.
Thy lying tongue both numbers, I would say
our prains together to be revenge on this same
Go to the gates of Bourdeaux, trumpeter:
A monk, I tell you; a resolved villain,
A novice of this place and the fair sister
Enter a Courtezan
But such an honest chronicler as Griffith.
In women's waxen hearts to set their forms!
Ay, and greater wonders than that.
A maiden battle, then? O, I perceive you.
'Fair' I give you back again; and 'welcome' I have
Troilus! thou coward Troilus!
exhibition; but for the whole world,--why, who would
'Tis strange.
So shall you feel the loss, but not the friend
And welcome, welcome! die where thou hast lived:
Look, my lord, it comes!
Could never be her mild companion.
Good as the best. Promising is the very air o' the
All is confirm'd, my lord, which was reported.
There lie thy bones, sweet Mutius, with thy friends,
Uncle, for God's sake, speak comfortable words.
My good master,
Of marching to Philippi presently?
Claps on his sea-wing, and, like a doting mallard,
Twice-sod simplicity, his coctus!
As mad as the vex'd sea; singing aloud;
What is a remuneration?
But did my brother set thee on to this?
Which mates him first that first intends deceit.
As shall with either part's agreement stand?
Scarcely have coveted what was mine own,
Unless the master were the man. How now!
To speak of peace or war.
We can afford no more at such a price.
This day, all things begun come to ill end,
And none serve with him but constrained things
His uncle York; where I first bow'd my knee
Hast thou or word, or wit, or impudence,
god kissing carrion,--Have you a daughter?
Look behind you, my lord.
My spirit can no longer bear these harms.
Which your disease requires.
Myself would, on the rearward of reproaches,
And what God will, that let your king perform;
Only in strokes; but, with thy grim looks and
Like heralds 'twixt two dreadful battles set:
Unto their lords, by them accomplished:
Your faithful subject I, a gentleman
sir, is a good tripping measure; or the bells of
my life, except my life.
And, uncle, so will I, an if I live.
There had made a lasting spring.
What I can do can do no hurt to try,
Shall star-like rise, as great in fame as she was,
I cannot help it now,
As you have for Olivia: you cannot love her;
My jerkin is a doublet.
Talk not, Signior Gremio: I say he shall go to prison.
I do beseech you, let it be his fault,
And found her wondrous cold; but I sent to her,
Your lady
recovered?
And carry back to Sicily much tall youth
answering: speaking is for beggars; he wears his
But not away to-morrow!
Say either, and I'll stay the circumstance:
holding up of hands, with countenances of such
And call'd Marina?
On what submissive message art thou sent?
justice rails upon yond simple thief. Hark, in
And to imperial Love, that god most high,
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
content to say it was for his country he did it to
Wherever we shall meet, for Timon's sake,
I pray you, stay not, but in haste to horse.
To the last hour of act; and then 'tis thought
No, my good lord, for that is not forgot
Exit
The flatness of my misery, yet with eyes
I know it is the sun that shines so bright.
Vagabond exile, raying, pent to linger
the adoption of abominable terms, and by him that
Then give me leave that I may turn the key,
Father, I warrant you; take you no care;
jump the after inquiry on your own peril: and how
Let me have open means to come to them,
Peace, good pint-pot; peace, good tickle-brain.
Why he, of all the rest, hath never moved me.
True,
speakest well of fools!
The pox of such antic, lisping, affecting
love her; yes, for her two eyes. Well, I do nothing
Nay, do not pause; for I did kill King Henry,
before the priest; and certainly a woman's thought
Exit
settled only in rogue: some call him Autolycus.
Can you tell if Rosalind, the duke's daughter, be
Perchance even there where I did find my doubts.
Good Aaron, give his majesty my hand:
Deliver up my title in the queen
Speak for yourselves; my wit is at an end.
Here grow no damned grudges; here are no storms,
We all were sea-swallow'd, though some cast again,
nothing but the reward of a villain.
As to take up mine honour's pawn, then stoop:
O, here they come.
When service sweat for duty, not for meed!
Assist, good friends.
It seems then that the tidings of this broil
Enter TITUS, bearing arrows with letters at the  ends of them; with him, MARCUS, Young LUCIUS,  PUBLIUS, SEMPRONIUS, CAIUS, and other Gentlemen, with bows
hear me call Margaret Hero, hear Margaret term me
Love hath chased sleep from my enthralled eyes
Is the young Dauphin every way complete:
Not till you have slept; I fear me you'll be in till then.
Therefore I say with noble Buckingham,
passion came so near the life of passion as she
And points at them for his.
Yes, for a score of kingdoms you should wrangle,
Citing my worthless praise: O, pardon me;
And pay thy life thou owest me for my horse!
The royalties and rights of banish'd Hereford?
Seek him with candle; bring him dead or living
And back to Athens shall the lovers wend,
And on my side it is so well apparell'd,
he hath framed a letter to a sequent of the stranger
Hang thee, young baggage! disobedient wretch!
Am I a lord? and have I such a lady?
I pray thee, do on them some violent death;
As I suppose, to Robert Faulconbridge,
Lo thee!
A plague of all cowards, still say I.
Enter HAMLET and Players
In winter with warm tears I'll melt the snow
To wage an instant trial with the king.
Lay me stark naked, and let the water-flies
wilt prove a notable argument.
Are all unfolded wherein he appears
I am no villain; I am the youngest son of Sir
I am friend to them and you: upon which errand
I am enjoin'd by oath to observe three things:
If seriously I may convey my thoughts
But float upon a wild and violent sea
Why is this reason'd?
What, are you both agreed?
Give me that hand of yours to kiss.
Unarm thee, go, and doubt thou not, brave boy,
wasp's nest; then stand till he be three quarters
creature in resemblance of the mother, the affection
Those palates who, not yet two summers younger,
Let me embrace too. 'O heart,' as the goodly saying is,
Some stern untutor'd churl, and noble stock
And potent injuries.
Demuring upon me. But come, come, Antony,--
Give you good morrow!
Exit CASSIUS, with some of the Citizens. BRUTUS goes into the pulpit
As wretches have o'ernight
Was carried with more speed before the wind;
For he was more than over shoes in love.
pray you, sir, are you a courtier?
Vanquish my staider senses. What's the matter?
Take to you, as your predecessors have,
I saw them at the prison: a saucy friar,
By all external warrants, show it now,
Marry, that am I and my partner.
That draws a sword on thee.
But I'ld say he had not,
Exit CATESBY
A hundred thousand welcomes. I could weep
And daily new exactions are devised,
By silken, sly, insinuating Jacks?
And here's thy hand, in scorn to thee sent back;
I'll give him reasons for't: hie thee, Malvolio.
Evermore thanks, the exchequer of the poor;
Nay, godded me, indeed. Their latest refuge
Which, like the courser's hair, hath yet but life,
To such exsufflicate and blown surmises,
Saving in dialogue of compliment,
leman: hadst it?
He wanted pikes to set before his archers;
Whiles the eye of man did woo me,
mines; the Duke of Gloucester would speak with you.
'Signior Martino and his wife and daughters;
How now! what news from her?
Her whip of cricket's bone, the lash of film,
None else of name and noble estimate.
The violent carriage of it
Hold me a foe;
To LADY ANNE
Wear out the day in peace; but, ere sunset,
Haply when they have judged me fast asleep,
me; I defied 'em still: when suddenly a file of
As I have done, thou wouldst be more pitiful.
SCENE II. Troy. A room in Priam's palace.
By his blunt bearing he will keep his word,
Attracts the same for aidance 'gainst the enemy;
not have things cool.
When thou wert king; who, travelling towards York,
Nor more shall trenching war channel her fields,
knows not from the enemy: we will bind and hoodwink
I'll tent him to the quick: if he but blench,
Are idly bent on him that enters next,
Thank you. Wondrous heavy.
Giving a favour
Wondrous! ay, I warrant you, and not without his
If the ill spirit have so fair a house,
The word is short, but not so short as sweet;
On the enchafed flood.
Of moving accidents by flood and field
Or earth, gape open wide and eat him quick,
Is not his grace protector to the king?
Exit
That I might strive to kill it with a groan.
I think, thy horse will sooner con an oration than
Enter a Gentleman
I'll let his humours blood.
And I resign my gage. My dear dear lord,
Brother, I advise you to the best; go armed: I
killed and eaten in these wars? But how many hath
Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib,
Now, by my sword,--
Look, who comes here: will you be chid?
I will advise you where to plant yourselves;
I'll not meddle nor make no further. He that will
Not in love neither? Then let us say you are sad,
No, by my life.
Lord Hastings will not yield to our complots?
SCENE VI. Forres. The palace.
By my life, this is my lady's hand these be her
To fill the world with vicious qualities.
Look to the baked meats, good Angelica:
Thou hast done well, fine Ariel!
Some Neapolitan, or meaner man of Pisa.
may be ten times found; by being ever kept, it is
Be somewhat scanter of your maiden presence;
And that is, to enjoy thee for my love.
I,' says she, 'that have so oft encountered him
No more of stay! to-morrow thou must go.
May we see them?
Then so much have I heard:
But since he's gone, the king's seas must please:
A spirit I am indeed;
Dear sir, ere long I'll visit you again.
Certainly, aunchient, it is not a thing to rejoice
that my husband saw this letter! it would give
thee: methinks, thou art a general offence, and
This weighty business will not brook delay:
Madam, you are call'd back.
What man is that?
We shall your tawny ground with your red blood
No longer than we well could wash our hands
merrily, and go away sadly: the reason of this?
The matter, I hope, is not great, sir, begging but
And tell me what thou notest about the field.
Lives in death with glorious fame.
The cause is in my will: I will not come;
May prove his travel, not her danger.
Between these woolly breeders in the act,
Is not this a rare fellow, my lord? he's as good at
You are loved, sir:
Traitor, restore Lavinia to the emperor.
Nor none, in my mind, now you give her o'er.
Debts wither 'em to nothing; be men like
I shall promulgate--I fetch my life and being
What did you swear you would bestow on me?
Your bed-chamber.
'Twas very Cloten.
Drag back our expedition: certain horse
Nay, how will you do for a husband?
So let them have their answers every one:
Ay, that's a colt indeed, for he doth nothing but
And with the juice of this I'll streak her eyes,
Shall, with my cousin, your right-noble son,
With Ariadne and Antiopa?
and a dram dead; then recovered again with
How or which way: 'tis sure they found some place
Be to content your lord, who hath received you
Say, then, to Caesar,
married a shepherd's daughter.
Let me embrace thine age, whose honour cannot
Thou art inclined to sleep; 'tis a good dulness,
In characters as red as Mars his heart
This dangerous treason lurking in our way
Be patient; we must bring you to our captain.
Thou and thy meaner fellows your last service
By whom shall I send this?--Company! stay.
I beseech your grace, let this letter be read:
If both were open'd.
Exeunt
Rather directly fly.
Beauty is bought by judgement of the eye,
My friends of noble touch, when I am forth,
Labouring to save his life, and would not rather
And yet he rides it out. Now please you wit.
non pour les dames d'honneur d'user: je ne voudrais
O, 'tis a fault too too unpardonable!
The man that gave them thee. Thou art some fool;
When most the truth; which I receive much better
Seeing his reputation touch'd to death,
My hand cut off and made a merry jest;
Then would I have his Harry, and he mine.
I would breed from hence occasions, and I shall,
What else, man? The stuff we have, a strong wind
amongst you as suits, with gentlemen of your
The issue of your proper wisdoms rate,
A rider like myself, who ne'er wore rowel
Away, you rogue!
the hearing.
A blessed soul doth in Elysium.
By his authority I will proclaim it,
Play with your fancies, and in them behold
Pur! the cat is gray.
Whose age has charms in it, whose title more,
And to the Roman empire; promising
By heavens, the duke shall know how slack thou art!
That he consents, if Warwick yield consent;
will do, let her remain; but I'll never give o'er.
As his wise mother wrought in his behalf,
She stripp'd it from her arm; I see her yet;
hath an argosy bound to Tripolis, another to the
Which weighs upon the heart?
And Henry put apart, the next for me.
Good your highness, patience.
Hath been beyond account.
And this unwieldy sceptre from my hand,
Why that's my spirit!
My lord,--
Since it is bankrupt of his majesty.
Yes, worthy sir,
a true man.
keep counsel; they'll tell all.
That speak him full of grace.
Make it more like a tavern or a brothel
And I his clerk; therefore be well advised
[To BERTRAM]  I dare not say I take you; but I give
There's none so foul and foolish thereunto,
Since you are dear bought, I will love you dear.
Of this fair mansion, master of my servants,
The blood of youth burns not with such excess
A long flourish
And tell thy king I do not seek him now;
And is a pattern of celestial peace.
Since thou deniest the gentle king to speak.
Like her! O Isis! 'tis impossible.
The valiant never taste of death but once.
I will be patient; outwardly I will.
Thrift, thrift, Horatio! the funeral baked meats
And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
And knowing this kingdom is without a head,--
But even the very middle of my heart
Come, hold your peace.
His nobleness well acted, which your death
We must not think the Turk is so unskilful
But I will use the axe.
Filling the air with swords advanced and darts,
This is a letter of your own device.
By penitence the Eternal's wrath's appeased:
Being vex'd a sea nourish'd with lovers' tears:
Come hither, sirrah. Can you cut off a man's head?
Make the prize light.
the incursions, thou strikest as slow as another.
The o'erpress'd spirits. I heard of an Egyptian
And, madam, at your father's castle walls
never draw sword again.
Against my brother Lucius?
broken out within this hour that ballad-makers
For ever the society of men.
Miscarried by my fault, let my old life
The liquid drops of tears that you have shed
How now! what news?
This blended knight, half Trojan and half Greek.
When my tongue blabs, then let mine eyes not see.
some occasion to anger Cassio, either by speaking
And I do with an eye of love requite her.
I do believe thee:
I'll break a custom. Is he yet possess'd
And indeed, sir, there are cozeners abroad;
Rough deeds of rage and stern impatience;
And gives his potent regiment to a trull,
Stay, madam; I must speak a word with you.
as secure as sleep. If you will go, I will stuff
That did renew old AEson.
raves in saying nothing.
His mother shames him so, poor boy, he weeps.
Haply been absent then.
The Moor's abused by some most villanous knave,
Royal queen!
When he was retrograde, I think, rather.
Come hither, William; hold up your head; come.
Neither is our profession any trade; it's no
My liege, the Duke of Buckingham is taken;
Says suum, mun, ha, no, nonny.
How you were borne in hand, how cross'd,
Enter the DUCHESS OF YORK, with the two children of CLARENCE
For such a warped slip of wilderness
O heaven! How got she out? O treason of the blood!
It is even so.
And do thee favours with my royal hands.
Is spotless reputation: that away,
Should yawn at alteration.
ANTIPHOLUS
Thou bleed'st apace.
DON
By us perform'd before. Most dearly welcome!
As seal to this indenture of my love,
That fear attends her not.
friend; his backward voice is to utter foul speeches
Whose love is never link'd to the deserver
And yet within these five hours lived Lord Hastings,
There's much example for't; the fellow that sits
And in their triumph die, like fire and powder,
Doth all the noble substance of a doubt
And not retire: let me have your good will.
evening prayer, as any is in Windsor, whoe'er be the
By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me!
[Aside]  Perish, base prince, ignoble Duke of York!
And that their measures are as excellent.
Your heaviest censure.
By many a dern and painful perch
Though Paris came in hope to speed alone.
saved me my pains, to have taken it away yourself.
Where is the king?
Injurious time now with a robber's haste
And the business you have broached here cannot be
But that Achilles, were his brain as barren
But I attest the gods, your full consent
Become thy great birth nor deserve a crown.
For I come hither arm'd against myself:
the fashion of his hat; it ever changes with the
Sith nor the exterior nor the inward man
But with our sword we wiped away the blot;
O me! it is my mother. How now, good lady!
Yes, in good faith.
Yea, but not change his spots: take but my shame.
While Gloucester bears this base and humble mind.
Peace there! hear the noble Antony.
Opening a letter
love, 'tis very possible he'll scorn it; for the
To think it was so? O, give me thy hand,
Under a compelling occasion, let women die; it were
Alarum. Here another skirmish
And turn pre-ordinance and first decree
Ask him his purposes, why he appears
Provided that my banishment repeal'd
Signior Baptista, of whom I hear so well.
Ye are a baggage: the Slys are no rogues; look in
[Within]  Who calls there?
Did tell me of you, bade me trust you; but
Did point you to buy them, along as you pass'd:
And on my face he turn'd an eye of death,
man may hear this shower sing in the wind. And
Let me ask you one thing:
lady; and I offered him my company to a willow-tree,
A pleasing cordial, princely Buckingham,
Guess thou the rest; King Edward's friends must down,
Have cost a mass of public treasury.
As much as would maintain, to the king's honour,
Lord hastings was to her for his delivery?
And yet words are no deeds. My father loved you:
Come, come, thou boy-queller, show thy face;
Good night: but go not to mine uncle's bed;
Being free from vainness and self-glorious pride;
Had all his hairs been lives, my great revenge
From glistering semblances of piety;
Can couch for fear, but I will find them out;
could recover the shore, five and thirty leagues off
Murderous to the senses? That confirms it home:
Awake, sir, awake; speak to us.
Who, looking for adventures in the world,
You'll ne'er be friends with him; a' kill'd your sister.
County Claudio, when mean you to go to church?
O' the world I would pursue it.
That she might admired be.
Something from Cyprus as I may divine:
Give me some help! O cruel! O you gods!
Arm you, I pray you, to this speedy voyage;
That monsters it, or your fore-vouch'd affection
Arise, I say.
She will not quench and let instructions enter
And in a moment makes them desolate.
Tell not me; when the butt is out, we will drink
No, not my body nor my husband's bed:
Rather than have false Proteus rescue me.
Sorry I am to hear what I have heard:
Re-enter SUFFOLK
I hope so: go and search.
Fly not; for shouldst thou take the river Styx,
That you on my behalf would pluck a flower.
Never came reformation in a flood,
And ere I take this charm from off her sight,
Nimbly and sweetly recommends itself
And make me happy in your unity.
An thou let part so, Sir Andrew, would thou mightst
Northumberland, I hold thee reverently.
And I for winking at your discords too
He is my dear friend, an please you.
The splinter of a lance. Even so much.
Why, what a peevish fool was that of Crete,
that I might have cudgelled thee out of thy single
And let us do it with no show of fear;
Myself disgraced, and the nobility
Is it a beggar-man?
the military discipline; that is the point.
One that still motions war and never peace,
In sooth, you are to blame.
'But I will never die.'
James Gurney, wilt thou give us leave awhile?
Something wicked this way comes.
And not have cut him off. Some one hath set you on:
serve him still.
But ere sunset I'll make thee curse the deed.
How now, mine host!
French earl: the honour of a maid is her name; and
And last the hearty welcome.
Marry, at the white hair that Helen spied on Troilus' chin.
SCENE III. England. Before the King's palace.
And yet take this again; and yet I thank you,
Young man, have you challenged Charles the wrestler?
SCENE IV. The same. A tent.
Or like a whale?
as you are, against 'em: know you me yet?
With whom the father liking took,
We understand it, and thank heaven for you.
towards London.
flint for want of meat, depart reeling with too
List.
With like advantage on the other side;
[To the Watch]  Bring you these fellows on. We'll
Creatures may be alike: were 't he, I am sure
Farewell, faint-hearted and degenerate king,
At one fell swoop?
That what you cannot as you would achieve,
no great argument of her folly, for I will be
yourself know how easy it is to be such an offender.
When he is drunk asleep, or in his rage,
Exactly is perform'd: but there's more work.
man, though he do nothing but reprove.
Strike up the drum; cry 'Courage!' and away.
His well-proportion'd beard made rough and rugged,
It was well done; and thou shalt sleep again;
My father will grant precious things as trifles.
particulars; wherein every one of us has a single
Why, this is strange. Go call the abbess hither.
And smote him, thus.
My love as deep; the more I give to thee,
Art thou here yet?
Is as a whisper in the ears of death,
To him that worships thee!
I would thou hadst told me of another father.
It must not bear my daughter.
I will requite you with as good a thing;
Should not expel these inconveniences
prince should woo Hero for himself, and having
Or hoop his body more with thy embraces,
Enter FORD
We had the tune on't a month ago.
Though in your state of honour I am perfect.
My operant powers their functions leave to do:
Not I, till Mutius' bones be buried.
Good ladies, let's go. Yes, yes, yes; the senate
Antony offer him a crown;--yet 'twas not a crown
Nay, I will do as my cousin Shallow says: I pray
With all the applause and clamour of the host,
Hang her, witch!
Though he be merry, yet withal he's honest.
You shall become true liegemen to his crown:
Breathe you, my friends: well fought;
their coats
Hath full relation to the penalty,
Twice to your visor, and half once to you.
As wicked dew as e'er my mother brush'd
Bajazet's mule, if you prattle me into these perils.
The imaginary relish is so sweet
And we, in pity of the gentle king,
My legions and my horse: six kings already
The sea, with such a storm as his bare head
No, not a denier. Go by, Jeronimy: go to thy cold
Towards their project. Then I beat my tabour;
thinking do not wrest true speaking, I'll offend
some stair-work, some trunk-work, some
If we mean to thrive and do good, break open the
But that thou overheard'st, ere I was ware,
Not to relent is beastly, savage, devilish.
Tell me, good fellow, camest thou here by chance,
It was against your highness: whereat grieved,
Whereby we stand opposed by such means
Pulls off the friar's hood, and discovers DUKE VINCENTIO
Didst undertake it? Why hast thou abused
Burn like the mines of Sulphur. I did say so:
Of every wind that blows.
She's beautiful, and therefore to be woo'd;
had been in his belly, I would have kept such a
Since I have ever follow'd thee with hate,
This 'tis:
Happy is Hermia, wheresoe'er she lies;
others how they should prepare.
How honourable and how kindly we
By a name
And in your search spend your adventurous worth;
And find it out by proclamation:
treachers, by spherical predominance; drunkards,
Why does the drum come hither?
ought him a thousand pound.
Whence came you?
I will teach the children their behaviors; and I
And generally, whoever the king favours,
Will then be pang'd by me. Prithee, dispatch:
Thy greatest help is quiet, gentle Nell:
One whom the music of his own vain tongue
Hautboys. Enter CARDINAL WOLSEY, and takes his state
Sleek-headed men and such as sleep o' nights:
Staying for thine to keep him company:
To show how much thou art degenerate.
As many as you please.
Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own:
Enter FRIAR LAURENCE, with a basket
The worthy thane of Ross.
does? a knave very voluble; no further
I thank you. Fare you well.
Lord George your brother, Norfolk and myself,
And whispers in mine ear, 'Go not till he speak.'
Run, master, run; for God's sake, take a house!
Why, so I did.
If there be any impediment, I pray you discover it.
What, ho, Pilch!
Thou hast, Ventidius,
Exit
Cassio hath here been set on in the dark
In part for his sake moved.
you shall go by him.
Marry, God forbid! the boy was the very staff of my
Exit
And very sea-mark of my utmost sail.
By circumstance, but to acquit myself.
How goes our reckoning?
the right arched beauty of the brow that becomes the
I'll throw thy body in another room
Which who shall cross?--along to go:
I came from Corinth, my most gracious lord,--
Beseech you, sir, desire
So much the more our carver's excellence;
Do you so, sir? And was the duke a fleshmonger, a
I' the bottom of a cowslip: here's a voucher,
Enter IDEN
But gather we our forces out of hand
Tybalt, that murderer, which way ran he?
I should be glad to hear such news as this
Peace!
Ay, sir, I have a pretty wit.
but chiefly a villanous trick of thine eye and a
The soldiers should have toss'd me on their pikes
Be merry, Kate. Some water, here; what, ho!
My father, as nurse said, did never fear,
To whom do you speak this?
Make me acquainted with your cause of grief.
Renowned Titus, flourishing in arms.
bodily part of your mistress, my ten thousand ducats
Come, he is here, my lord; do not deny him:
Thy life's a miracle. Speak yet again.
To you for gold to pay my legions,
By some discretion, that discerns your state
Till they have snared the shepherd of the flock,
Who set this ancient quarrel new abroach?
Second 'Prentice	Be merry, Peter, and fear not thy master: fight
Enter IMOGEN
For even the day before, she broke her brow:
Turns them to shapes and gives to airy nothing
'Tis like a pardon after execution:
A statelier pyramis to her I'll rear
A young man married is a man that's marr'd:
shuffle, to hedge and to lurch; and yet you, rogue,
How can these things in me seem scorn to you,
Cannot make boast to have that which he hath,
Hath homely age the alluring beauty took
Playing in the wanton air:
All that you meet are thieves: to Athens go,
Follow my voice: we'll try no manhood here.
How ceremonious, solemn and unearthly
Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
'Twill be recorded for a precedent,
Against that power that bred it: there will she hide her,
Poison'd, then.
You say you do not know the lady's mind:
Re-enter to CARDINAL WOLSEY, NORFOLK and SUFFOLK, SURREY, and the Chamberlain
And my invention thrive, Edmund the base
You say well.
Exit
And nothing marted with him. If your lass
Their points being broken,--
[Within]  Let him walk from whence he came, lest he
For he's disposed as the hateful raven:
Your charity, and hundreds call themselves
Yon sometimes famous princes, like thyself,
Craving us jointly. Hie you to horse: adieu,
BERTRAM.
you bear to women--as I perceive by your simpering,
The conquerors can but make a fire of him;
Yes, lion-sick, sick of proud heart: you may call it
And write to her a love-line.
That you have ta'en a tardy sluggard here.
I will bestow some precepts of this virgin
'Tis well that thou hast cause
Know, worthy prince, Sir Valentine, my friend,
That which I show, heaven knows, is merely love,
Five days we do allot thee, for provision
SCENE I. A cavern. In the middle, a boiling cauldron.
Exeunt VOLTIMAND and CORNELIUS
I do not like your faults.
Exeunt
A critic, nay, a night-watch constable;
Of his own body he was ill, and gave
A most toad-spotted traitor. Say thou 'No,'
And, like her true nobility, she has
any thing and yet a fool.
Whose ugly and unnatural aspect
[Within]  Ho! Peace be in this place!
But, howsoever thou pursuest this act,
An 'twere to give again,--but 'tis no matter.
My physic says 'ay.'
He's a-birding, sweet Sir John.
Fare thee well:
Thanks for your pains.
Such as it is, being tender, raw and young:
the truth, I had as lief have the foppery of freedom
Enter VALENTINE and VIOLA in man's attire
And answer was return'd that he will come.
Hath their keel cut: but fortune's mood
The fields are near, and you are gallant grooms:
In such a business give me leave to use
Good wits will be jangling; but, gentles, agree:
O murderous slave! O villain!
Sport! of what colour?
She could not sway her house, command her followers,
to her! If ever I was respected with her, or she
We shall know by this fellow: the players cannot
That I may speak: I'll write straight to my sister,
carry; therefore is she better than a jade. 'Item:
I have bewept a worthy husband's death,
For wrying but a little! O Pisanio!
Say you so? come on.
For yet may England curse my wretched reign.
My noble partners, and myself, thus pray:
Weeps when she sees me work, and says, such baseness
That, open'd, lies within our remedy.
he transgressed: she would have made Hercules have
Serving-Men	Open the gates unto the lord protector,
Who by his prowess conquered all France:
Help me, my women,--we must draw thee up:
BRUTUS and SICINIUS go aside
Come, sister. Shepherdess, look on him better,
Will deign to sip or touch one drop of it.
Troubled, confronted thus; and, for the extent
Thy love did read by rote and could not spell.
And the most noble mother of the world
Durst not presume to look once in the face.
And they have troops of soldiers at their beck?
I thought that all things had been savage here;
Herself the glory of a creditor,
Are not inherited. Then, dear countryman,
Re-enter MOTH with COSTARD
I'll hide my silver beard in a gold beaver
SCENE II. Capulet's orchard.
Point to rich ends. This my mean task
For which your honour and your faith is pawn'd;
Come on, our queen: to-morrow must we part;
All which time
Where meeting with an old religious man,
Observed his courtship to the common people;
Shall not be a maid long, unless things be cut shorter.
In a false quarrel there is no true valour. I came
Let it go naked, men may see't the better:
That so degenerate a strain as this
But yesternight, my lord, she and that friar,
To thee, King John, my holy errand is.
Remaineth nought, but to inter our brethren,
Gone slightly o'er low steps and now are mounted
Beseeching thee, if with they will it stands
The hours come back! that did I never hear.
No noise, but silence and eternal sleep:
Good my friends,
To whom in all this presence speaks your grace?
Remain there but an hour, nor speak to me:
I' the name of something holy, sir, why stand you
of thunder and lightning heard.
Well seen in music, to instruct Bianca;
Well, I will see what I can do for thee: if I can
An I had but one penny in the world, thou shouldst
By all that's holy, he had better starve
We'll hear, ourselves, again.
Do I take part: the rarer action is
Ensuing dangers; as by proof, we see
he is but a knight, is a'?
I cannot tell: the world is grown so bad,
With who?
The heart of Antony, Octavia is
It is no act of common passage, but
Complotted and contrived in this land
Feed on her damask cheek: she pined in thought,
Upon the valleys, whose low vassal seat
shortly, for one would kill the other. Thou! why,
Well, that fault may be mended with a breakfast. Read on.
reception of King, Princess, Lords,  and c.
Since you provoke me, shall be most notorious.
O, that once more you knew but what you are!
The minute I began.
That makes him close his eyes? I'll open them.
Exit Falstaff
How now, my lord! is't not after midnight?
Enter BIANCA
For, in my mind, you are much bound to him.
If she be in her chamber or your house,
[To the Commons, entering]  Sirs, stand apart;
love sack, and so do I; would you desire better
morris-pike.
When I said, banish him, I said 'twas pity.
And what they weigh, even to the utmost scruple,--
Patience awhile, good Cassio. Come, come;
And wit depends on dilatory time.
Which was the model of that Danish seal;
And you shall find I like it: wait attendance
What is the matter, think you?
As I am subtle, false and treacherous,
Stealing and giving odour! Enough; no more:
I will tell no tales.
In thunder, lightning, or in rain?
I am giddy; expectation whirls me round.
By my troth, most pleasant: how both did fit it!
And thanks; and ever [         ] oft good turns
Great nature, like his ancestry,
Then hie you hence to Friar Laurence' cell;
Like peasant foot-boys do they keep the walls
If 'twill not serve,'tis not so base as you;
if thou beest a devil, take't as thou list.
was the very day that young Hamlet was born; he that
Exit
You and you no cross shall part:
Save that, they say, the wars must make examples
Nor my bad life reft me so much of friends,
Re-enter KATHARINA, with BIANCA and Widow
ACT II
Somewhat too early for new-married ladies.
He'll soon find means to make the body follow.
Not all together: better far, I guess,
books for good manners: I will name you the degrees.
To fight I will, but not to fly the foe.
Pyrrhus at Priam drives; in rage strikes wide;
Enter HAMLET and GUILDENSTERN
emulation, nor the musician's, which is fantastical,
In such a presence here to plead my thoughts;
Such as the shortness of the time can shape;
Farewell, sweet madam: but hark you, Margaret;
Enter FRIAR JOHN
Exeunt CAPULET, LADY CAPULET, PARIS, and FRIAR LAURENCE
For they are harsh, untuneable and bad.
Her inkle, silk, twin with the rubied cherry:
Who would believe me? O perilous mouths,
some little measure draw a belief from you, to do
We have cause to be glad that matters are so well
I will endure, and I'll employ thee too:
SCENE II. The same. Another street.
That I might rail at him, to ease my mind!
the Lent shall be as long again as it is; and thou
Before I enter'd here, I call'd; and thought
O heaven! I thank you, Hubert.
Up Fish Street! down Saint Magnus' Corner! Kill
There's mischief in this man: canst thou say further?
Forage in blood of French nobility.
And the great care of goods at random left
Ay, if you come not in the blood of others,
Ay, by these gloves, did he, or I would I might
that wise men have makes a great show. Here comes
Enter BUCKINGHAM, DERBY, HASTINGS, the BISHOP OF  ELY, RATCLIFF, LOVEL, with others, and take their seats at a table
either to make him a garland, as being forsaken, or
Peace, Kent!
Who kill'd this prince?
And drown me with their sweetness. O, come hither,
Look, what I will not, that I cannot do.
Well, give her that ring and therewithal
And what to her adheres, which follows after,
Exit SIR ANDREW
Bohemia stops his ears, and threatens them
Let him die for't.
Enter the Soothsayer
Are not you the chief woman? you are the thickest here.
Come, Kate, we'll to bed.
No, no, he is dead:
[To KING RICHARD III]
and most illustrious six-or-seven-times-honoured
Let me see; a fat l'envoy; ay, that's a fat goose.
And here the abbess shuts the gates on us
More sins for this forgiveness prosper may.
Thou dost advise me
Further I say and further will maintain
These wars determine: if I cannot persuade thee
The even virtue of our enterprise,
SCENE II. Fife. Macduff's castle.
How, with my honour, I may undertake
Pattern'd by that the poet here describes,
comedy, history, pastoral, pastoral-comical,
the report of it. Well, Diana, take heed of this
You have hit it.
To me.
And with this horrible object, from low farms,
Until the goose came out of door,
That the world masters. Now, in faith, Gratiano,
SCENE I. A street before a Priory.
the north star. I would not marry her, though she
A proper squire! And who, and who? which way looks
Needs must I like it well: I weep for joy
Your grace hath ta'en great pains to qualify
O dear discretion, how his words are suited!
Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy
Aside to ARIEL
Shall be applied: for us we will resign,
withal, and defy the surgeon?
Supposing that I lack'd it. But, on, Caesar;
An if the shepherd be a while away.
For any foreign preparation
An oath is of no moment, being not took
Which tired majesty did make thee offer,
Enter ORLANDO and OLIVER
Which we much rather had depart withal
What custom wills, in all things should we do't,
The virtue of his will: but you must fear,
Wears yet thy silver livery. She at Tarsus
Depose me? if thou dost it half so gravely, so
Farewell, my lord: trust not the Kentish rebels.
That if they come to sojourn at my house,
I should believe you:
Apollo, perfect me in the characters!
There is much matter to be heard and learn'd.
Poor harmless fly,
That in their chains fetter'd the kingly lion
Concerning you.
Nurture can never stick; on whom my pains,
Which I have sometime known.
Over his country's wrongs; and by this face,
Yet, I pray you:
Rot half a grain a day! he lies to the heart:
refused, and upon the grief of this suddenly died.
The loyal'st husband that did e'er plight troth:
And venture maidenhead for't; and so would you,
A pair of worthier sons.
Give me the crown. Here, cousin, seize the crown;
ACT IV
And, sith there's no justice in earth nor hell,
complete man.
And many a man there is, even at this present,
By east, west, north, and south, I spread my
Nay, not sure, in a thing falsing.
Stay, Edward.
And that to the infection of my brains
Died with their swords in hand; for which
That leads towards Mantua, whither they are fled:
If they do speak our language, 'tis our will:
signify to you that Fortune is blind; and she is
It had been so with us, had we been there:
So, traitor! 'When she comes!' When is she thence?
By bare imagination of a feast?
'Tis just to each of them; he is himself.
Goodman, my lord cardinal's man, for keeping my
It is too general a vice, and severity must cure it.
Be cross'd with slowness; labour be his meed!
Where they're extended; who, like an arch,
And all our princes captiv'd by the hand
The Fifth Knight passes over
A' did in some sort, indeed, handle women; but then
The queen of Naples.
The king hath straitly charged the contrary.
Speaks nobly of her.
Are their males' subjects and at their controls:
The King of Naples, being an enemy
'Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes
What, master, read you? first resolve me that.
Neither my husband nor the slave return'd,
His eldest sister, Anne,
Though most dishonestly he doth deny it.
How happy some o'er other some can be!
daughter unto Reignier King of Naples, Sicilia and
What are they that fly there?
Gallants, I am not as I have been.
There is some grudge between 'em, 'tis not meet
What nearer debt in all humanity
The owner of the house I did inquire for?
Martext. But, Audrey, there is a youth here in the
Might with effects of them follow our friends,
Seeking to hide herself, as doth the deer
Enter FLAVIUS and two Senators
I will not believe such a Cataian, though the priest
By my heel, I care not.
If it be so, out with it boldly, man;
Out of the teeth of emulation.
To show less sovereignty than they, must needs
And thrice cried 'Courage, father! fight it out!'
Keep this remembrance for thy Julia's sake.
I'll rant as well as thou.
name is Tranio.
That Maine which by main force Warwick did win,
Speak to them, noble Timon.
This man shall set me packing:
than I can: you may ask your father; here he comes.
Receive each other. God speak this Amen!
that, cousin, let him be a handsome fellow, or else
Gentles, perchance you wonder at this show;
Take heed, Signior Baptista, lest you be
Thou, nor thy nobles, to the crown of England.
No.
He did solicit you in free contempt
A messenger from the Lord Stanley.
Exeunt DULL and JAQUENETTA
If I prove honey-mouth'd let my tongue blister
So long as out of limit and true rule
untuneable.
My joy of liberty is half eclipsed.
As his own state and ours,--'tis to be chid
Of my conception. The state, whereon I studied
Yea, the elect o' the land, who are assembled
Is piled upon his faith and will continue
To haste unto your coronation,
Come, sir;
all his ancestors that come after him may: they may
You, sir, what trade are you?
Enter a Messenger
Then he was urged to tell my tale again,
The superstitious idle-headed eld
In thee there is not half an hour of life;
Of this sir-reverence love, wherein thou stick'st
Why, he is the prince's jester: a very dull fool;
men.
They are worse fools to purchase mocking so.
Chi non ti vede non ti pretia.
SCENE I. Padua. BAPTISTA'S house.
And you, my lords, methinks you do not well
I say, my sovereign, York is meetest man
Have I heard groan and drop: then know me not,
SCENE I. The rebel camp near Shrewsbury.
Warwick and Huntingdon, go with the king;
than I will a serpent when he hisses: he will spend
As I had leave of means?
Out with that too; it was Eve's legacy, and cannot
Must he be then as shadow of himself?
Now, sirs: by'r lady, you fought fair; so did you,
Sir, I lack advancement.
not on thy baseness court-contempt? Thinkest thou,
To make an act of tragic violence:
To be so bouted in this royal presence?
As the recomforted through the gates. Why, hark you!
Or else to heaven she heaves them for revenge.
You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is--
turn you out of doors, never trust me.
I part you. The falcon as the tercel, for all the
Advertising and holy to your business,
Here pitch our battle; hence we will not budge.
To justify this worthy nobleman,
Send for him, good uncle.
worth the nineth part of a sparrow. This lord,
He does deny him, in respect of his,
This tractable obedience is a slave
Stay, yet look back with me unto the Tower.
To spend upon his haters. If thou please
Of gracious order, late come from the See
She spitteth at him
On which I must fall down, or else o'erleap,
Under their blessed wings!
O, let me see thee walk: thou dost not halt.
Such noble fury in so poor a thing;
'Tis time to fear when tyrants seem to kiss.
cannot cog and say thou art this and that, like a
to be a friar, from the time of his remembrance to
But accidents unpurposed. Draw, and come.
Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
yet could not equivocate to heaven: O, come
SCENE II. Rome. Before TITUS's house.
That she is living,
By the way we met
When it is baked with frost.
They were given me by Claudio; he received them
Due to the Moor my lord.
Enter AUTOLYCUS, singing
After so long grief, such festivity!
My emperor hath wrote, I must from hence;
Away before me to sweet beds of flowers:
I do owe them still
Go, get you gone; and pray be careful all,
To visit the next room, I'll presently
Exeunt
I am great with woe, and shall deliver weeping.
Besides, upon the very siege of justice
With all these living in philosophy.
You speedy helpers, that are substitutes
In one respect I'll thy assistant be;
And will not trust one of her malice with
But 'tis no matter; thou shalt bring him to me
and there's my harvest-home.
Ah ha, my mistresses! which of you all
With those that I saw suffer: a brave vessel,
And give me signs of future accidents.
Side-stitches that shall pen thy breath up; urchins
Hear from me, it shall be for thy good.
Write till your ink be dry, and with your tears
And prove a deadly bloodshed but a jest,
Murder!
Turn all to serpents! Call the slave again:
And there the strawy Greeks, ripe for his edge,
She would be as swift in motion as a ball;
A drug of such damn'd nature. Those she has
The cardinal's malice and his potency
Tied all the kingdom: simony was fair-play;
To Attendants
Sir, we have all
You lie, up to the hearing of the gods.
I was sure your lordship did not give it me.
My heavy burden ne'er delivered.
Cleopatra,--
Is it not too far gone? 'Tis time to part them.
To part from Rome; Caesar is sad; and Lepidus,
A great man should decline? Nay, an you weep,
will do no hurt; it will wear the surplice of
My name is Pistol call'd.
God bless you, sir!
And make you long become it!
I will debate this matter at more leisure
To win the Moor again? For 'tis most easy
Join'd with a masker and a reveller!
The rebels have assay'd to win the Tower.
What said the wench when he rose again?
But virtue, as it never will be moved,
I'll bring you to the gates.
He then unto the ladder turns his back,
And in the taste confounds the appetite:
Soldiers should brook as little wrongs as gods.
Alarums: excursions. Enter QUEEN MARGARET, PRINCE EDWARD, and EXETER
Re-enter RUGBY
Aside
Who, with their drowsy, slow and flagging wings,
And with this hateful liquor temper it;
Sister, you know he promised me a chain;
For the remembrance of my father's death.
To know the reason of this strange restraint.
'Twas where the madcap duke his uncle kept,
If with a lady of so high resolve
None, but to lose your eyes.
With burthens of the dead;--some that were hang'd,
Sir Toby to look to me! This concurs directly with
Like music.
'Tis set down so in heaven, but not in earth.
Their form confounded makes most form in mirth,
A gory emulation 'twixt us twain:
Then shall you know the wounds invisible
Shall draw him on to his confusion:
Or, if there were a sympathy in choice,
What other harm have I, good lady, done,
You know me, do you not?
Prithee, come hither: what fair lady's that?
Of kerns and gallowglasses is supplied;
Kneel down and take my blessing, good my girl.
Here is the head of that ignoble traitor,
Noble sir,
He says so, Tranio.
Collected choicely, from each county some,
Dost please thyself in't?
I am not worthy of the wealth I owe,
As my young mistress' dog. Now, my sick fool Roderigo,
Well, that's set down.
Let me deserve so ill as you, and make me
To answer such a question: stand again:
Before we proceed any further, hear me speak.
And you were sworn true subjects unto me:
He might not but refuse you; but he protests he loves you
Do make their children blind;
than you'ld think, sister.
Enter LUCIUS, with his sword drawn
What poor an instrument
But on his knees at meditation;
Sirrah, come hither: make no more ado,
Have mind upon your health, tempt me no further.
O Kate, content thee; prithee, be not angry.
thy wits than, I am sure, I have in my whole five:
To their whole being! I am rapt and cannot cover
an honourable man.
Away, boy, from the troops, and save thyself;
I am he that is so love-shaked: I pray you tell me
For 'tis a damned slave.
By virtue specially to be achieved.
In tatter'd weeds, with overwhelming brows,
Injurious world! most damned Angelo!
Than feed on cates and have him talk to me
Since when, my watch hath told me, toward my grave
The king had cut off my head with my brother's.
As guilty of Duke Humphrey's timeless death.
A true man or a thief that gallops so?
The midwife and the nurse well made away,
And so break off; the day is almost spent:
fiend; 'for the heavens, rouse up a brave mind,'
What was his cause of anger?
Here comes my man; I think he brings the money.
when she put 'em i' the paste alive; she knapped 'em
The shady curtains from Aurora's bed,
Should presently extirpate me and mine
Ophelia, walk you here. Gracious, so please you,
And do expect him here some two hours hence.
See, see, thou hast shot off one of Taurus' horns.
Save that there was not time enough to hear,
The powers, delaying, not forgetting, have
Therefore great France
And meeting him will tell him that my lady
In thy faint slumbers I by thee have watch'd,
But your discretions better can persuade
We'll see these things effected to the full.
Be left her to perform. Come, follow us;
Meaning the king at Pomfret. Come, let's go:
A' can carve too, and lisp: why, this is he
When it was out,--'Let me not live,' quoth he,
His hours fill'd up with riots, banquets, sports,
The wall is high, and yet will I leap down:
He must, and will
His gracious pleasure any way therein:
napkins; that, Master Brook, there was the rankest
Proceed:
Page. Said I well?
Signior Benedick, no; for then were you a child.
Come hither, fellow: which way hast thou been?
Exeunt JAQUES, TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY
And you an officer fit for the place.
And how, and who, what means, and where they keep,
Nine, sir; Overdone by the last.
Was Cressid here?
We are a queen, or long have dream'd so, certain
Deny us for our good; so find we profit
CLARENCE sleeps
Stretch him out longer.
O upright, just, and true-disposing God,
Agreed.
His sovereign's life to death and treachery.
A beggar, brother?
And the rich East to boot.
Enter VENTIDIUS as it were in triumph, with SILIUS,  and other Romans, Officers, and Soldiers; the dead body of PACORUS borne before him
Hath thwarted our intents. Come, come away.
Knocking within
Exit
All my smooth body.
And found it was his brother, his elder brother.
And never brandish more revengeful steel
Let her lie still and dream.
How I would make him fawn and beg and seek
If this salute my blood a jot: it faints me,
Possess it, I'll make answer:
Speak, speak.
And churlish chiding of the winter's wind,
But dies, betray'd to fortune by your strife.
Why then it sorts, brave warriors, let's away.
To silence envious tongues. Be just, and fear not:
That defence thou hast, betake thee to't: of what
To shrink mine arm up like a wither'd shrub;
despite of his quick wit and his queasy stomach, he
And I will bring him to the Capitol.
Conferring them on younger strengths, while we
Enter PORTIA
you never heard of!
And she is exceeding wise.
Come, you are deceived, I think of no such thing.
beguile the supposition of that lascivious young boy
Exit CALIBAN
Yet am I sick for fear: speak it again;
Your majesty's good thoughts away from me!
For this play at this time, is only in
He dies, we lose; I break my warlike word;
Persuade the queen to send the Duke of York
his duchess will be here with him this night.
And yield to mercy whilst 'tis offer'd you;
But you at your sick service had a prince.
not Goliath with a weaver's beam; because I know
I pray you, sir, go forth,
And the imperial votaress passed on,
We have frighted with our trumpets; so, 'tis clear,
Make tigers tame and huge leviathans
talk we of these traitorly rascals, whose miseries
On the first view to say, to swear, I love thee.
Unto the legions on the other side.
Shepherdess,
Know you the quality of Lord Timon's fury?
Myself and you, son Harry, will towards Wales,
Sorry am I that our good will effects
The sweat of industry would dry and die,
every day. But, I beseech your grace, pardon me: I
And lords and ladies in their lives
The melting spirits of women, then, countrymen,
And even but now return'd; I have not yet
to be constant in any undertaking. There is scarce
Wouldst thou withdraw it? for what purpose, love?
And driven into despair an enemy's hope,
No, no, it cannot be; and yet my heart
Hate him perniciously, and, o' my conscience,
Bestow it at your pleasure; and believe,
Not yet, my cousin: we would be resolved,
To tread a measure with her on this grass.
Now I know you better.
Why linger we? let us lay hands upon him.
O fairest beauty, do not fear nor fly!
Under the countenance and confederacy
What exploit's in hand? where sups he to-night?
Enter STANLEY
Is thick inlaid with patines of bright gold:
Let him go hence, and with his cap in hand,
Bearing the king in my behalf along;
Ay, in the temple, in the town, the field,
And taste Lord Timon's bounty? he outgoes
O heavy times, begetting such events!
I mean the bishop, did require a respite;
would take her with all faults, and money enough.
My sighing breast shall be thy funeral bell;
Rise, Marcus, rise.
and gold and silver, is her grandsire upon his
He served with glory and admired success,
Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
With windlasses and with assays of bias,
DON
Nor be rebellious to the crown of England,
SCENE III. A monastery.
Sharp physic is the last: but, O you powers
I have follow'd thee to this; but we do lance
As dim and meagre as an ague's fit,
And, being intercepted in your sport,
Lord Timon will be left a naked gull,
Till I have used the approved means I have,
How do you mean?
do than to confess she does: that is one of the
fire and water for such a kind heart. But yet I
If God will be revenged for this deed.
Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
O!
Where is your husband?
Would seem in me to affect speech and discourse;
Alas, now, pray you,
Hem them away.
As it were doomsday.
He goes forth gallantly. That he and Caesar might
I curse myself, for they are sent by me,
Re-enter FORD, PAGE, DOCTOR CAIUS, and SIR HUGH EVANS
I desire to find him so, that I may worthily note him.
This is the man.
Of your soft cheveril conscience would receive,
To the tent-royal of their emperor;
And take unmingled that same drop again,
Or else depart; here all eyes gaze on us.
Than without candle may go dark to bed--
Yet livest thou, Salisbury? though thy speech doth fail,
Upon mine honour, he shall never know
To save her life, I'll say she is not so.
Have hent the gates, and very near upon
Behold, this is the happy wedding torch
Your lady being so easy.
O, tell me how it is; for ne'er till now
It rested in your grace
Pompey is moved. More Ates, more Ates! stir them
To his most royal person, hither come
And bids thee study on what fair demands
Young prince of Tyre, you have at large received
Well met, Mistress Page. Whither go you?
What peace you'll make, advise me: for my part,
That such a valiant company are fled.
If you apply yourself to our intents,
The more fool you, for laying on my duty.
Bad news, my lord: Ely is fled to Richmond;
doing eternal: for doing I am past: as I will by
Chaste and immaculate in very thought;
But that's no argument for kissing now;
In the line-grove which weather-fends your cell;
A stone.
So many blows upon this face of mine,
On some known ground of treachery in him?
Be it my wrong you are from me exempt,
It pays the hearing double recompense.
The unity the king thy brother made
Let me go, sir,
Silence! one word more
am a villain: and yet you will stand to if; you will
SCENE II. A room in Titus's house. A banquet set out.
What say these young ones? What say you my niece?
Hush, my gentle neighbours!
What, my lord?
exchequers to me; they shall be my East and West
Dies
So gain'd the sur-addition Leonatus;
A pestilence on him! now will he be mocking:
Ill will never said well.
What else, fellow?
Of their observant toil the enemies' weight,--
And bade me to dismiss you.
And know the office that belongs to such.
See, they encounter thee with their hearts' thanks.
Good sentences and well pronounced.
Away with me in post to Ravenspurgh;
Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern!
might it not?
What further comes.
See you here, sir?
For this will out, and here I must not stay.
have the best use of eyes to see the way of
Lucius!
This night I hold an old accustom'd feast,
Than in the pride and salt scorn of his eyes,
The clock hath strucken twelve upon the bell;
Look to't, think on't, I do not use to jest.
she kept it,
Ah, Exeter!
escapes me without some broken limb shall acquit him
Even in the force and road of casualty.
Which, when I saw rehearsed, I must confess,
You take much pains to mend.
Quicken with kissing: had my lips that power,
Patience, good lady! comfort, gentle Constance!
Nay, then he should be blind; and, being blind
To whom being going, almost spent with hunger,
You do ill to teach the child such words: he
To any other trust but that I am mad
March. Enter EDWARD, GEORGE, RICHARD, WARWICK, NORFOLK, MONTAGUE, and Soldiers
Because we ever have been near the king.
Alack, poor gentleman!
And he is bred out of that bloody strain
Men of great worth resorted to this forest,
A most unnatural and faithless service!
let ten thousand devils come against me, and give me
This nurse, this teeming womb of royal kings,
Now is this golden crown like a deep well
Sir,
Whose valour plucks dead lions by the beard;
And go to't with delight.
Which, till my infant fortune comes to years,
Then thou wert best say that I am not Lucentio.
Thy kingly doom and sentence of his pride.
This gentleman is happily arrived,
Varlet, thou liest; thou liest, wicked varlet! the
And bring your music forth into the air.
And, though unskilful, why not Ned and I
In this our pinching cave, shall we discourse
Take up this mangled matter at the best:
Now, captain?
Now, when the angry trumpet sounds alarum
Exeunt NORTHUMBERLAND and others, with the prisoners
Enter PERICLES
Present our services to a fine new prince
SCENE II. A street.
The ruthless queen gave him to dry his cheeks
I should be as merry as the day is long;
Exeunt
The ladies follow her and but one visor remains.
Then let her alone.
shoulders, shall within this hour be off; thy
My villany?
he hear us not, 'regia,' presume not, 'celsa senis,'
Marry, she hath received your letter, for the which
To this pernicious caitiff deputy,--
From her propriety. What is the matter, masters?
Why?
Dear lady, welcome home.
Methought I saw a thousand fearful wrecks;
Than the sea-monster!
near-legged before and with, a half-chequed bit
known to you; and though we have there a substitute
Come, shepherd, let us make an honourable retreat;
recantation.
By the compulsion of their ordinance
'Thou canst not choose but know who I am. If thou
Not as you served the cause, but as 't had been
Ay, sharp and piercing, to maintain his truth;
shall make it whole again; you shall piece it out
Shame come to Romeo!
Which should perceive nothing but love from us,
O Julius Caesar, thou art mighty yet!
And he shall surety me. But for this lord,
With this strict charge, even as he left his life,
She never knew harm-doing: O, now, after
to dinner: besides your cheer, you shall have
But what of that? Demetrius thinks not so;
For a dark hour or twain.
Were thy commixtion Greek and Trojan so
Clambering to hang, an envious sliver broke;
Then where you please, and shall be thought most fit
Enter a Sergeant of a band with two Sentinels
Now is he total gules; horridly trick'd
than hairs, and more wealth than faults.'
Fie, there is no such man; it is impossible.
My gentle Puck, come hither. Thou rememberest
The certainty of this hard life; aye hopeless
both the office of God and the devil? One brings
Exeunt ANGELO, MARIANA, FRIAR PETER and Provost
Say, the brave Antony.
Approved warriors, and my faithful friends,
To give these mourning duties to your father:
A single voice; and that not pass'd me but
But what a fool am I to chat with you,
For what, alas, can these my single arms?
Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the
Collected from all simples that have virtue
Such pity as my rapier's point affords.
Else let my brother die,
Why should he, then, protect our sovereign,
It may be thought we held him carelessly,
O, dismiss this audience, and I shall tell you more.
As after some oration fairly spoke
O noble prince, I can discover all
Courage, man; the hurt cannot be much.
Who is here? What, are you packing, sirrah?
And bring him jump when he may Cassio find
No, not to lose it all, as thou hast done:
To send for Titus Lartius, it remains,
Without your vows. Till she be married, madam,
From London by the king was I press'd forth;
Where, if it please you, you may intercept him.
will beat into clamorous whining, if thou deniest
had been swelled! I should have been a mountain of mummy.
For many of our princes--woe the while!--
'Tween man and man they weigh not every stamp;
rhyme and reason, that they were fairies. See now
may strike at you: provoke him, that he may; for
Why urgest thou so oft young Arthur's death?
you?
Why, then is my pump well flowered.
Content thyself awhile. By the mass, 'tis morning;
Of much good news?
Exeunt
In love and service to you evermore.
Before Angiers well met, brave Austria.
Hath not so green, so quick, so fair an eye
Thy state is taken for a joined-stool, thy golden
And here I stand: judge, my masters.
For thee! ay, who art thou? he hath stayed for a
What find I here?
The lioness had torn some flesh away,
Not this, by no means, that I bid you do:
'I have already chose my officer.'
Was my dear friend: what malice was between you?
Exit DUKE
Lo, where he comes!
not fail him at supper; for indeed he hath made
Alas, poor wenches, where are now your fortunes!
Exeunt DIOMEDES and CALCHAS
Misguide thy opposers' swords! Bold gentleman,
Make work upon ourselves, for heaven or hell.
Such wind as scatters young men through the world,
Swear thou art honest.
To comb your noddle with a three-legg'd stool
Well met, honest gentleman.
I could shake them off my coat: these burs are in my heart.
Days and nights has thirty-one
Enter DUKE FREDERICK, with Lords
O, when mine eyes did see Olivia first,
Exeunt
Well, sir.
With honours like himself.
And leave you to your graver steps. Hermione,
Lady, were you her bedfellow last night?
But what of this?
must leave them, and seek some better service:
And Rosaline they call her: ask for her;
Exeunt
Into as many gobbets will I cut it
Prove but our marriage lawful, by my life
intellectual armour, they could never wear such heavy
Shall seem expedient on the now-born brief,
I would my tongue could rot them off!
But this thing dare not,--
Whiles I take order for mine own affairs.
And feel I am so most. O Antony,
Strikes life into my speech and shows much more
To entertain me as your steward still.
'Suum cuique' is our Roman justice:
Sir, go you in; and, madam, go with him;
Some sixteen months, and longer might have stay'd,
Of a pair of bases.
O, my dear lord, lo, where your son is borne!
Give me leave. Here lies the water; good: here
Now she is there, how will she specify
Here comes the townsmen on procession,
Till thou canst rail the seal from off my bond,
Ask my dog: if he say ay, it will! if he say no,
But not kissed your keeper's daughter?
I say again, there is no English soul
commendation with woman than report of valour.
bakers' wives, and they have made bolters of them.
What say you, Hermia? be advised fair maid:
Nature would not invest herself in such shadowing
believe your majesty takes no scorn to wear the leek
Ay,
Quite vanquish'd him: then burst his mighty heart;
O, O, O,
O, where is faith? O, where is loyalty?
But the main grief springs from the loss
Under his own vine, what he plants; and sing
And bawds and whores do churches build;
wish might be found in the calendar of my past
What? what?
Between two girls, which hath the merriest eye;
BISHOP
Such sheets of fire, such bursts of horrid thunder,
I will trust you. Walk before toward the sea-side;
O,--sixpence, that I had o' Wednesday last
My Lord of Canterbury; and got your leave
Will thither straight, for willingness rids way;
Dead March. Enter the Funeral of KING HENRY the  Fifth, attended on by Dukes of BEDFORD, Regent of  France; GLOUCESTER, Protector; and EXETER, Earl of WARWICK, the BISHOP OF WINCHESTER, Heralds,  and c
Will you go hear this news, signior?
And daily graced by the emperor;
To KENT
Go down upon him, you have power enough,
Re-enter FALSTAFF in woman's clothes, and MISTRESS PAGE
Or council has respect with him but he.
Madam, in Rome;
You, cousin
maidenhood, cannot for all that dissuade succession,
Sextus Pompeius spoil'd, we had not rated him
Pray now, no more.
Why take we hands, then?
And you, my lords, remember where we are,
world hath not a sweeter creature: she might lie by
Thou hast described
And a chain, that you once wore, about his neck.
Ay, or any show that you'll show him: be not you
During the life, let us not wrong it dead.
O, this will make my mother die with grief!
Ah, my good lord, what have I seen to-night!
Of Phoebus' wheel, and might so safely, had it
Not for myself, Lord Warwick, but my son,
Your husband, being troubled with a shrew,
Exeunt all but HORTENSIO
Though he does bear some signs of me, yet you
Long live Gonzalo!
I'll be your foil, Laertes: in mine ignorance
Flourish. Exeunt
Thou whoreson zed! thou unnecessary letter! My
For curious I cannot be with you,
These well express in thee thy latter spirits:
SCENE I. Troy. Before Priam's palace.
Whom the king hath in secrecy long married,
Resolveth from his figure 'gainst the fire?
la truie lavee au bourbier;' thou makest use of any thing.
But since the affairs of men rest still incertain,
gone off, look you; and there is gallant and most
As love between them like the palm might flourish,
express and admirable! in action how like an angel!
Masters, I am to discourse wonders: but ask me not
But is this law?
[Sings]
And seeing ignorance is the curse of God,
But now to task the tasker: good Boyet,
Her natural posture!
Presenting LUCENTIO
Pursue we him on knees; for I have dream'd
To punish this offence in other faults:
Gallus, go you along.
Your vile intent must needs seem horrible.
Not so, my lord; the gods of Rome forfend
There is an art which in their piedness shares
The head of Cade! Great God, how just art Thou!
He is, indeed; and living to kill thee. I prithee,
Which time she chanted snatches of old tunes;
You show too much of that
duke's wrestler; which Charles in a moment threw him
In suit the place of's bed and win this ring
As he is very potent with such spirits,
Was this King Priam's joy?
Be known unto us: are you all agreed, lords?
Go forth, Agrippa, and begin the fight:
Boatswain!
Stir up the Athenian youth to merriments;
If that thy father live, let him repent
With thine, and all that offer to defend him,
I have surely seen him:
Stand gracious to the rites that we intend!
Now you have heard the truth, what say you, Romans?
Into this gaping hollow of the earth?
More tuneable than lark to shepherd's ear,
One of these men is Genius to the other;
Win me and wear me; let him answer me.
Thy lands and all things that thou dost call thine
finger and his thumb, as one would set up a top.
And must be made a subject to a duke?
I like it better than a dangerous honour.
Am I not protector, saucy priest?
Blessing on your heart for't!
Some powerful spirit instruct the kites and ravens
Holy seems the quarrel
Have seal'd his rigorous statutes with their bloods,
Build his statue to make him glorious:
No, madam.
for God's sake: pray you, examine him upon that point.
From reason's yielding, your fair self should make
And Longaville was for my service born.
Enter SLENDER
The water nectar and the rocks pure gold.
If not in heaven, you'll surely sup in hell.
To signify unto his majesty
And I will wish thee never more to dance,
The gods have well prevented it, and Rome
With his good will and thy good company,
Trumpet sounds. Enter General and others, aloft
Nor set no footing on this unkind shore'?
To sue to live, I find I seek to die;
they drink,
And all to make away my guiltless life.
Enter PANTHINO
Repairs itself by rest. Our Tarquin thus
Into your guiding power. This is the man.
But my entreaty too.
What, is't murder?
And Marian's nose looks red and raw,
Romeo, I come! this do I drink to thee.
Almost each pang a death.
The mayor and all his brethren in best sort,
Be brief, I pray you:
Wherein our entertainment shall shame us we will be
E'en so, my lord.
Be hostages for Rome.
Why, that's spoken like an honest drovier: so they
With fairest flowers
But not a thousand marks between you both.
We do instate and widow you withal,
And do you now strew flowers in his way
Their grand commission; where I found, Horatio,--
Very strangely, they say.
will make much of your voices, and so trouble you no further.
Either of king or council, when you went
You know my father left me some prescriptions
Good night, my noble lord.
As fearful as a siege.
carry them:
Have you so slander any moment leisure,
And she is dead; which nothing, but to close
Most vilely; for my vantage, excellent:
Dost dialogue with thy shadow?
follows his own instructions: I can easier teach
Rid me these villains from your companies:
With saints dost bait thy hook! Most dangerous
tell my daughter I would speak with her.
king, and cat of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
for a great praise: only this commendation I can
With such discourse as, I not doubt, shall make it
ACT I
Will nothing turn your unrelenting hearts?
I do profess
With silence, nephew, be thou politic:
A grave? O no! a lantern, slaughter'd youth,
Enter GOWER and WILLIAMS
I have forsworn his bed and company.
Becomes a virtuous bachelor and a maid,
Ay, she quickly pooped him; she made him roast-meat
Shall I never see a bachelor of three-score again?
If my sight fail not,
Why then, to-morrow I cannot serve your turn for Rosalind?
I to this fortune that you see me in.
Thy lord, Thersites: then tell me, I pray thee,
Let fall thy blade on vulnerable crests;
Too like the lightning, which doth cease to be
My lord, when shall we go to Cheapside and take up
The griefs between ye: to forget them quite
Did lately meet in the intestine shock
Is't possible that my deserts to you
it is a prison.
I'll follow him no more with bootless prayers.
Make me to see't; or, at the least, so prove it,
ancient; this is my right hand, and this is my left:
But make you ready your stiff bats and clubs:
ANTIPHOLUS
The precious image of our dear Redeemer,
Remain this ample third of our fair kingdom;
may beg; four pound of prunes, and as many of
Will you encounter the house? my niece is desirous
Might corrupt minds procure knaves as corrupt
An he had been a dog that should have howled thus,
Bearing the king's will from his mouth expressly?
A milk-sop, one that never in his life
Milk-liver'd man!
The taper burneth in your closet, sir.
She swounds to see them bleed.
Who, Troilus? Troilus is the better man of the two.
A fellow of no mark nor likelihood.
Is as a fury to torment my soul;
Why, Hal, thou knowest, as thou art but man, I dare:
May reasonably die and never rise
In dumb significants proclaim your thoughts:
If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart
Pointing to the Child in the arms of an Attendant
If you do say we think him over-proud
If thou deny'st it twenty times, thou liest;
And with a look so piteous in purport
Was not like madness. There's something in his soul,
And there she shall at Friar Laurence' cell
That's a good deed. If thou mayest discern by that
I hold you but a subject of this war,
his pencil, and the painter with his nets; but I am
I most unfeignedly beseech your lordship to make
To me the difference forges dread; your greatness
Here had we now our country's honour roof'd,
New-bent in heaven, shall behold the night
Here's one, a friend, and one that knows you well.
By any other name would smell as sweet;
To have her back return'd: thus to persist
Went through the army, cheering up the soldiers.
love me, hold not off.
The bishop and the Duke of Gloucester's men,
Were it a casque composed by Vulcan's skill,
And go we, brothers, to the man that took him,
Prince Troilus: I will make a complimental assault
No hope to have redress? My body shall
He beats thee 'gainst the odds: thy lustre thickens,
Is husband in my mouth! even for that name,
I will but spend a word here in the house,
And by disjoining hands, hell lose a soul.
With spur we beat an acre. But to the goal:
Troth, sir, she hath eaten up all her beef, and she
Would this report become? But I consider,
Resides not in that man that does not think,--
Fed in heart, whose flames aspire
You sleeping safe, they bring to you unrest;
With blue of heaven's own tinct. But my design,
With half that wish the wisher's eyes be press'd!
Tongue, not a word:
We do condemn thee to the very block
Follow Fluellen closely at the heels:
Fell gently down, as if they struck their friends.
Have brought a countercheque before your gates,
Thus is poor Suffolk ten times banished;
She is.
To send it me.
My lord, I did intend it.
But now the substance shall endure the like,
Doubting thy birth and lawful progeny.
I'll come by Naples. Draw thy sword: one stroke
Like the base Indian, threw a pearl away
Time was, I did him a desired office,
Ay, to me;
You shall know many dare accuse you boldly,
And a petition granted them, a strange one--
Well, sir.
Taken as seen; for Pompey's name strikes more
Didst thou not say he lied?
Do thou for him stand:
yourself: many likelihoods informed me of this
I am son to the queen.
Than by the negligent.
Our haste from hence is of so quick condition
Madam, it will not lie where it concerns
No, good mother, here's metal more attractive.
the flow o' the Nile
Why, if two gods should play some heavenly match
There you shall find three of your argosies
lend me thy sword.
Became a bricklayer when he came to age:
Iago, look with care about the town,
And fright him there? and make him tremble there?
hear your son was run away.
Enter Serving-men, in skirmish, with bloody pates
I'll have: but how, when Antony is gone
Hath blister'd her report: she is with child;
There art thou happy: Tybalt would kill thee,
For this is from the present--how you take
Nay, but, Beatrice,--
Marry, at my house. Trust me, I think 'tis almost
A little water clears us of this deed:
Would stretch thy spirits up into the air:
For this affliction has a taste as sweet
Sailing in this salt flood; the winds, thy sighs;
Ah, Joan, sweet daughter Joan, I'll die with thee!
like smell; a kind of not of the newest Poor-
The laws, your curb and whip, in their rough power
Justice! the law! my ducats, and my daughter!
I'll murder all his wardrobe, piece by piece,
That the pursuers took him. At my tent
'Tis sin to flatter; 'good' was little better:
Why, thou must be thyself.
The heads of all thy brother cardinals,
That's not my meaning: but breathe his faults so quaintly
This is he.
And she speaks for you stoutly: the Moor replies,
You say he is so fell.
Exeunt the followers of BASSIANUS
I have the placing of the British crown.
The king's grown bankrupt, like a broken man.
Tush!
But God hath made her sin and her the plague
Where slept our scouts, or how are they seduced,
O, swear not by the moon, the inconstant moon,
And wide unclasp the tables of their thoughts
Yea, art thou there?
a puppet of her.
Thy love's to me religious; else, does err.
Tell me what more thou know'st.
And dallies with the innocence of love,
The life thou gavest me first was lost and done,
Did see and hear, devise, instruct, walk, feel,
False-boding woman, end thy frantic curse,
Go, then my mother, to thy daughter go
Would choose him pope, and carry him to Rome,
Lay hands on the villain: I believe a' means to
They all bustle about CORIOLANUS, crying
How now, my headstrong! where have you been gadding?
What would your Grace have me to do in this?
Beginning in the middle, starting thence away
The Trojans' trumpet.
To swear against you? such things have been done.
throat to cut. An I had been a man of any
Those mothers who, to nousle up their babes,
Of Learning, late deceased in beggary.'
Well you deserve: they well deserve to have,
Hath turn'd my feigned prayer on my head
Not a whit.
flesh, and cost me the dearest groans of a mother, I
ACT II
You are as good as a chorus, my lord.
Marry, I saw your niece do more favours to the
insinuation, as it were, in via, in way, of
Clock strikes
I mean, that with my soul I love thy daughter,
wed, there will I shame her.
love to the Moor,-- put money in thy purse,--nor he
that I have not ended yet.
Care for us! True, indeed! They ne'er cared for us
Where is he? call him hither.
Whose worst was, that the noble Mortimer,
The air hath starved the roses in her cheeks
And grief that young Octavius with Mark Antony
Leave wringing of your hands: peace! sit you down,
O, content thee.
To answer us.
leave that I may bear my evils alone: it were a bad
I did but smile till now:
I thank your grace.
These weeds are memories of those worser hours:
Arm, arm with speed: and, fellows, soldiers, friends,
That he seems rapt withal: to me you speak not.
Great Albion's queen in former golden days:
Enter AARON
Above their quantity.
On me, my bargains and my well-won thrift,
Nor never Hydra-headed wilfulness
ACT I
Ay, every dram of woman's flesh is false, If she be.
O villany, villany!
SCENE V. The same. Before SHYLOCK'S house.
cowardly rascal, nature disclaims in thee: a
True: those that were your father's enemies
Whereby hangs a tale, sir?
ANTIPHOLUS
My lord, it were your duty to forbear.
Farewell to thee too, Strato. Countrymen,
That's my noble master!
My point and period will be throughly wrought,
Came then into my mind; and yet my mind
The marigold, that goes to bed wi' the sun
Speak! In some bush? Where dost thou hide thy head?
before they are married, would she say?
I crave no other, nor no better man.
O sweet Paulina,
Exeunt
ACT I
No, so God help me, they spake not a word;
I do not strain at the position,--
Methinks I see a quickening in his eye.
benches after noon, that thou hast forgotten to
fits you, search out of the calendar, and nobody
Rather rejoicing to see another merry, than merry at
I would not be a stander-by to hear
Quicken'd with youthful spleen and warlike rage,
Now, as I am a true woman, holland of eight
Thou frantic woman, what dost thou make here?
The white sheet bleaching on the hedge,
How pomp is follow'd! mine will now be yours;
My father had a mole upon his brow.
Keep peace, upon your lives:
And so bestow these papers as you bade me.
I thank ye all. To you, my good lord mayor,
Did come to languish, and indeed, my lord,
You something know; yet I believe there comes
That lock up your restraint. For you, Posthumus,
For we must measure twenty miles to-day.
The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
A nurse of me. Lord, how your favour's changed
him kill the next Percy himself. I look to be either
What seal is that, that hangs without thy bosom?
only his gift is in devising impossible slanders:
Which Salique, as I said, 'twixt Elbe and Sala,
And unrespective boys: none are for me
Exit
Or ill-beseeming beast in seeming both!
Give me thy hand; come on.
So full of artless jealousy is guilt,
Why thou damnable box of envy, thou, what meanest
Heaven bless him! Farewell, Bertram.
fellowship: I had as lief have a reed that will do
She speaks yet she says nothing: what of that?
Being capable of all ill! I pitied thee,
Flatterers! Now, Brutus, thank yourself:
That they may hold excus'd our lawless lives;
And not one vessel 'scape the dreadful touch
There's not a note of mine that's worth the noting.
For's private friends: his answer to me was,
Pardon, I pray thee, for my mad mistaking.
No; let him die, in that he is a fox,
and disheartens him; makes him stand to, and
Spits in the face of heaven, is no bar
And you are her labour'd scholar. Come, queen o'
then thy manners must be wicked; and wickedness is
further warrant: go but with me to-night, you shall
The shadow'd livery of the burnish'd sun,
I did receive fair speechless messages:
To grosser issues nor to larger reach
Look, look! O heavy day!
Than Rhodope's or Memphis' ever was:
Most strangely.
One sorrow never comes but brings an heir,
They are not near my conscience; their defeat
Sailors, sir: they say they have letters for you.
She hales him up and down
A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up;
I stand for judgment: answer; shall I have it?
Now, Lychorida!
Enter LAUNCE, with his his Dog
To be received plain, I'll speak more gross:
Because they are not eight?
To the tub-fast and the diet.
That mothers shall but smile when they behold
As you have been; that's for my country:
Upon thy cheek lay I this zealous kiss,
Here comes Romeo, here comes Romeo.
all women shall pardon me. Because I will not do
But when I meet you arm'd, as black defiance
SCENE III. The same. The Forum.
tell-tale nor no breed-bate: his worst fault is,
When these so noble benefits shall prove
shoulder, and with his royal finger, thus, dally
Sir Eglamour, a thousand times good morrow.
To say as I said then! But, come, away;
sithence, in the loss that may happen, it concerns
Alarum afar off
to be known a reasonable creature. Who is his
I must be patient:
What, shall I groan and tell thee?
And all the brothers too: and yet I know not.
Why no, you ruinous butt, you whoreson
I feel master's passion! this slave,
Look on her, mark her well; be but about
Bequeathed down from many ancestors;
And if mine arm be heaved in the air,
And with advantage means to pay thy love:
Never?
Without repugnancy? If there be
Exeunt
They hither march amain, under conduct
Say you?
Come hither, captain; hark.
Till famine cling thee: if thy speech be sooth,
Do you go back dismay'd? 'tis a lost fear;
Therefore, lord constable, haste on Montjoy.
Upon his bad life to make all this good,
My body up to shame.
The reverend'st throat in Athens. So I leave you
Thou hast no faith left now, unless thou'dst two;
Stay, and breathe awhile:
Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust,
What's thy passion!
shrift and advise him for a better place. Yet you
And let her joy her raven-colour'd love;
To old Baptista as a schoolmaster
me to ridiculous smiling. O, pardon me, my stars!
Amen. Whereupon I will show you a chamber with a
therefore your grace may well say I have lost it.
'Tis she is sub-contracted to this lord,
I grant him bloody,
charge it against me. I pray you choose another subject.
Beldam, I think we watch'd you at an inch.
And make him weigh with her.
Is yet to name the winner: fare you well.
Over the boots? nay, give me not the boots.
Almost at odds with morning, which is which.
You are a young huntsman, Marcus; let it alone;
Doubt not, sir;
hereafter, which shall then have no power to stand
Sir, the duke is marvellous little beholding to your
But he shall know I am as good--
Stand you auspicious!
Come; fear you not: good counsellors lack no
We'll part the time between's then; and in that
I will o'ertake thee, Cleopatra, and
Enter ARIEL, invisible
Wilt thou have music? hark! Apollo plays,
Do in his name religiously demand
Know them from eyes of other mortals?
In sight of England and her lordly peers,
In cradle-clothes our children where they lay,
O Romeo, Romeo, brave Mercutio's dead!
Known and allied to yours.
Enough, with over-measure.
The Gentlemen and the two Sailors descend, and go on board the barge
How often have I told you 'twould be thus!
That make their looks by his; he was not merry,
Go bear him hence. Sister, go you with me.
So are those crisped snaky golden locks
One side will mock another; the other too.
Peace your tattlings! What is 'fair,' William?
Deliver them this paper: having read it,
Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a
Thou art a grave and noble counsellor,
The son, compell'd, been butcher to the sire:
Be that the uttermost, and fail not then.
O Lord, I could have stay'd here all the night
That rises like the issue of a king,
Absolved him with an axe.
Some blood drawn on me would beget opinion.
with a paper: God give him grace to groan!
false thanes,
for this uncivil rule: she shall know of it, by this hand.
Ay, amen!
But sever'd in a pale clear-shining sky.
blame her then, being a maid yet rosed over with the
Not I; 'twas Chiron and Demetrius:
In aspiration lifts him from the earth.
Not poppy, nor mandragora,
My part thereof that I have done to her.
No, pardon; 'tis a secret must be locked within the
Alarums. Enter KING JOHN and HUBERT
What place this is; and all the skill I have
And I myself secure in grace and favour.
I bring thee tidings of the prince's doom.
Will be here with mop and mow.
But tidings to the contrary
remembered. My clown, who wants but something to
She makes it strange; but she would be best pleased
as I was said to, Away!
Be gentle grave unto me! rather on Nilus' mud
Which, of he or Adrian, for a good
I'll do the service of a younger man
Dies
Now begin;
O, it came o'er my ear like the sweet sound,
Well, thou shalt see, thy eyes shall be thy judge,
ANTIPHOLUS
Ay, ay, for this I draw in many a tear
What answer shall I make to this base man?
Bring the strong poison that I bought of him.
There, then, that vizard; that superfluous case
Enter THESEUS, HIPPOLYTA, PHILOSTRATE, and Attendants
Do wrong to none: be able for thine enemy
We never valued this poor seat of England;
Till thou shalt know the reason of my love:
If that the former dare but what it can,
Thus purifies itself and turns to grace.
And make thy fortunes proud: the blow thou hadst
being but half a fish and half a monster?
crack the glass of her virginity, and make the rest malleable.
Proclaim them traitors that are up with Cade;
A little, by your favour.
Re-enter First Gaoler
The deepest loathing to the stomach brings,
brother Troilus went not?
That best becomes the table. Pray you once more,
my nation? Who talks of my nation?
Wear out thy youth with shapeless idleness.
But how, if that fly had a father and mother?
read you; and let us to our work.
That is not glad to see thee! You are three
My uncles both are slain in rescuing me;
I am Cinna the poet, I am Cinna the poet.
Ten thousand bloody crowns of mothers' sons
I, that please some, try all, both joy and terror
Upon the love and truth and vows which I
Knowest thou Gower?
All that pass by. It cannot hold: no reason
Barr'st me my way in Rome?
Addition of his envy! Say, good Caesar,
wicked villain, despite of all grace.
The shrinking slaves of winter.
Under the surly Gloucester's governance?
He speaks home, madam: You may relish him more in
Think but upon the wrong he did us all,
By heaven, she is a dainty one. Sweetheart,
And here have I the daintiness of ear
If thou livest, Pericles, thou hast a heart
And therefore look you call me Ganymede.
Whose absence is no less material to me
To cure thy o'er-night's surfeit? Call the creatures
Write down, that they hope they serve God: and
And he, good prince, having all lost,
Good friend, thou hast no cause to say so yet,
In Caesar's name pronounce I 'gainst thee: look
In yours and my discharge.
Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed,
She did corrupt frail nature with some bribe,
My fear to hope, my sorrows unto joys,
But I was made a king, at nine months old.
Exit
encounter any such, apprehend him, an thou dost me love.
Exeunt
He that is truly dedicate to war
We'll make you some sport with the fox ere we case
Your buskin'd mistress and your warrior love,
No vast obscurity or misty vale,
desire the duke to use his good pleasure, and put
pass. An chud ha' bin zwaggered out of my life,
The ox hath therefore stretch'd his yoke in vain,
SCENE II. The same. A public place.
M, O, A, I, doth sway my life.
towards her.
The which I hope is not enrolled there;
Now I perceive that she hath made compare
Be wise, and get you home.
Retorts it: Romeo he cries aloud,
Learn how 'tis held; and what they are that must
In such a love so vile a lout as he.
True, and it was enjoined him in Rome for want of
That has a name: but there's no bottom, none,
War with mankind.
Has done this, and 'tis well; for worthy Wolsey,
Prince Pericles,--
Lo, you, my lord,
Why are thine eyes fixed to the sullen earth,
And the rude son should strike his father dead:
She should have died hereafter;
Stoop then and set your knee against my foot;
And Master Slender's your master?
Approved so to your majesty, may plead
O, I know where you are: nay, 'tis true: there was
Which the most precious square of sense possesses;
Musicians waiting. Enter Servingmen with napkins
And thou, his yoke-fellow of equity,
Was theme for you, you were the word of war.
But those as sleep and think not on their sins,
hot venison pasty to dinner: come, gentlemen, I hope
At home, my lord.
Enter a Messenger
So glad of this as they I cannot be,
Reads
That you will feed on; but what is, come see.
Be theme and hearing ever, was in this Britain
I'd set my ten commandments in your face.
Lord Cerimon, we do our longing stay
He is my brother too: but fitter time for that.
Ha, ha!
If this prove true, they'll pay for't:
are, you must have the patience to hear it.
more tricks with Falstaff: his dissolute disease will
Can heaven be so envious?
Sham it be put to that?
Of that sweet way I was in to despair!
For love of Edward's offspring in my womb:
A smiling with a sigh, as if the sigh
How blow? how blow? speak to be understood.
All our bills.
Ay, if thou wilt say 'ay' to my request;
And will dispatch.
Exeunt some of them
Exeunt LUCIUS and MARCUS
come on? how then? Can honour set to a leg? no: or
Behold, as may unworthiness define,
O, sir, I can be modest.
But wilt thou not speak all thou knowest?
Then put up your pipes in your bag, for I'll away:
PROLOGUE
By your power legatine, within this kingdom,
No, forsooth: he hath but a little wee face, with a
Nay, then,--
Then must I think you would not have it so.
Each one with ireful passion, with drawn swords,
Be the attorney of my love to her:
That by misfortunes was my life prolong'd,
Seizing LAVINIA
What instance gives Lord Warwick for his vow?
Not I.
Without discharge, money, or furniture,
To measure out my length on this cold bed.
out ere he come?
While the beast lived, was killed with hunting him.
For these contempts.
The people in the street cry Romeo,
Is now again thwarting the wayward seas,
Whilst, with no softer cushion than the flint,
By my troth, a pleasant-spirited lady.
To undergo such maiden pilgrimage;
Exeunt
Ten days ago I drown'd these news in tears;
Thy tears would wash this cold congealed blood
Pointing to Goneril
Good news or bad, that thou comest in so bluntly?
Have we more sons? or are we like to have?
By what you see them act. Is there not charms
Exceed three days: in faith, he's penitent;
Not wagging his sweet head; and yet as rough,
That make ingrateful man!
Therefore the winds, piping to us in vain,
I'll tell you news indifferent good for either.
To make him an example. All hope is gone,
A most arch heretic, a pestilence
Your quondam wife swears still by Venus' glove:
Save for the son that she did litter here,
them. If there be not a conscience to be used in
door, you would never dance again after a tabour and
What ceremony else?
My very worthy cousin, fairly met!
SCENE IV. London. The palace.
The poor remainder of Andronici
Into this sea of air.
What's there?
As if it some impartment did desire
Carry his honours even: whether 'twas pride,
I'd have them whipped; or I would send them to the
So 'tis reported:
Are tricks of custom, but in a man that's just
As if thou wert distraught and mad with terror?
The skipping king, he ambled up and down
Satis quod sufficit.
Enter WARWICK
And let it not displease thee, good Bianca,
When such profound respects do pull you on.
But, master mayor, if Henry be your king,
ACT I
Upon the head of valour; which indeed
In all that I can do.
Not I, believe me.
Well, uncle, what folly I commit, I dedicate to you.
That thou art so inhuman,--'twill not prove so;--
A! that's a foul fault.
I will, my lord.
SCENE VI. Another part of the plains.
I had thought, my lord, to have learn'd his health of you.
But I remember, when the fight was done,
Timon hath made his everlasting mansion
And cased as richly; in pace another Juno;
Exit
The first, of gold, who this inscription bears,
will entertain Bardolph; he shall draw, he shall
minds: methinks I could not die any where so
Exeunt CORIN and TOUCHSTONE
Go, John, go inquire for my master; I doubt
Gracious Lavinia, Rome's rich ornament,
A private whisper, no, not with such friends
But were the day come, I should wish it dark,
He is a proper man's picture, but, alas, who can
Therefore thy later vows against thy first
So did you me, my liege.
As gaming, my lord.
How shall this bisson multitude digest
And thou be thrust out like a fugitive?
But, sirrah, you shall buy this sport as dear
That could have better sew'd than Philomel.
What should this mean?
a Peg-a-Ramsey, and 'Three merry men be we.' Am not
Quick, quick; fear nothing; I'll be at thy elbow:
And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
That will take pains to blow a horn before her?
When we have chid the hasty-footed time
Sir, there is a fray to be fought between Sir Hugh
thou shalt hold the opinion of Pythagoras ere I will
What mar you then, sir?
Thou know'st not what; but take it for thy labour:
made in the unchaste composition.
I thank thee for that humour.
They took his head, and on the gates of York
Or Jove for's power to thunder. His heart's his mouth:
What, with my tongue in your tail? nay, come again,
And yet runn'st toward him still. Thou art not noble;
And that's the reason I love him so little.
And fit you to your manhood. May the gods
But get thee gone: I shall be there before thee.
Your mind is the clearer, Ajax, and your virtues the
The phrase is to the matter.
He calls me boy; and chides, as he had power
old mothy saddle and stirrups of no kindred;
I know, they do attend us.
Exit
Marry, this well carried shall on her behalf
It weeps, it bleeds; and each new day a gash
And what said the gallant?
Be born another such.
Good Laertes,
And all the world was of my father's mind:
Do me no slander, Douglas: by my life,
That all the Greeks begin to worship Ajax;
All these and more we hazard by thy stay;
To wage against the enmity o' the air;
And turn again; and she can weep, sir, weep;
This by the eye of Cynthia hath she vow'd
to prison! lay bolts enough upon him: let him
'Tis the times' plague, when madmen lead the blind.
great preparation.
run away from the Jew, I should be ruled by the
O, this is it that makes your servants droop!
Alas, master, what shall I do? I am not able to stand.
Bend thoughts and wits to achieve her. Thus it stands:
My lord, I'll tell you; that self bill is urged,
You are too senseless--obstinate, my lord,
Nay, then you lie: it is the blessed sun.
O, speak again, bright angel! for thou art
One nick-name for her purblind son and heir,
Indies, and I will trade to them both. Go bear thou
Made the all-honour'd, honest Roman, Brutus,
That keeps his leaves in spite of any storm,
Where's hourly trouble for a minute's ease.
But that, till further trial in those charges
You shall this twelvemonth term from day to day
Faith, e'en with losing his wits.
Exit
Too familiar
genitivo, hujus. Well, what is your accusative case?
Why this should be. I therefore vouch again
Enter EDGAR, at the third sound, armed, with a trumpet before him
Re-enter PUCK, and BOTTOM with an ass's head
SCENE I. Another part of the island.
A certain queen to Caesar in a mattress.
Was Tybalt's dooms-day, whose untimely death
You undergo too strict a paradox,
not; but thy intercepter, full of despite, bloody as
I am for you.
beware instinct; the lion will not touch the true
'Then' is spoken; fare you well now: and yet, ere
O miserable age! virtue is not regarded in handicrafts-men.
A dozen of them here have ta'en the sacrament,
Exit CLEOPATRA
off.
Your power and your command is taken off,
To be the lord on't. No more yet of this;
eloquence, nor I have no cunning in protestation;
To know the thing I am forbid to know:
Kate, my wooing is fit for thy understanding: I am
Without false vantage or base treachery.
Music and poesy use to quicken you;
Good man, sit down. Now let me see the proudest
Not soon provoked nor being provoked soon calm'd:
It shall be his. You shall close prisoner rest,
I'll do, I'll do, and I'll do.
sitting, as I say, in a lower chair, sir; 'twas in
With envy of each other's happiness,
Doth make your honour of his body's hue,
given, she's very well and wants nothing i', the
But after many ceremonies done,
But to go hang my head all at one side,
Or else I'll call my brother back again,
Enter JULIET
Go to, go to!
Of worthy Frenchmen: let higher Italy,--
Therefore, away with her, and use her as you will,
you thus get my wife into corners.
There is no fear in him; let him not die;
And, with a palsy-fumbling on his gorget,
Exit with Soldiers
Of his superior, grows to an envious fever
Taste grief, need friends: subjected thus,
I cannot find it; 'tis not in the bond.
No, that you shall not, till you take her hand
Shall do a courtesy to our wrath, which men
The thunder-like percussion of thy sounds,
Gone! they went hence so soon as they were born:
With all my love I do commend me to you:
Thou art straightway with the fiends.
and then, you know,
This is your devoted friend, sir, the manifold
Why, then, your brown bastard is your only drink;
that; and for their bareness, I am sure they never
Wait in the presence.
For practising to steal away a lady,
What, look'd he frowningly?
The penalty and forfeit of my bond.
lists. A pavilion by the side of it for the
devise laws for the blood, but a hot temper leaps
reverberates
Even as soon as thou canst, for thou hast to pull at
Mistress Anne Page: and the letter is, to desire
Enter FERDINAND, LONGAVILLE, DUMAIN, BIRON, and Attendants
Peace, mayor! thou know'st little of my wrongs:
Enter TITUS dressed like a Cook, LAVINIA veiled,  Young LUCIUS, and others. TITUS places the dishes on the table
This amorous surfeiter would have donn'd his helm
Between two hawks, which flies the higher pitch;
And make a mutual closure of our house.
Thus, Brutus, did my master bid me kneel:
Why, then, I would resort to her by night.
And with those hands, that grasp'd the heaviest club,
Even so must I run on, and even so stop.
That could control the moon, make flows and ebbs,
The man I am.
I shall desire more love and knowledge of you.
'These are their reasons; they are natural;'
In us, thy friend: give me thy hand, stand up:
And citizens to their dens: the death of Antony
No, let's come in.
Stand more for number than for accompt.
Polecats! there are fairer things than polecats, sure.
Exeunt
will what have we here! Mercy on 's, a barne a very
I think it cites us, brother, to the field,
What time o' day?
Terras Astraea reliquit:
Here comes the lady: O, so light a foot
Exit
Good Enobarbus, 'tis a worthy deed,
how thine eye would emulate the diamond: thou hast
threw this whale, with so many tuns of oil in his
and Barnardine. Here is in our prison a common
What is your pleasure, madam?
Nor never by advised purpose meet
Of my behind-hand slackness. Welcome hither,
Which makes the true man kill'd and saves the thief;
And take a bond of fate: thou shalt not live;
The king from Eltham I intend to steal
Within the volume of which time I have seen
till our very pastime, tired out of breath, prompt
Lest his ungovern'd rage dissolve the life
But, lovely niece, that mean is cut from thee;
And bear her women from the monument:
Rushing on us, should do your age some mischief.
'I would he had'! 'Twas you incensed the rabble:
And seem a saint, when most I play the devil.
Kinsmen, shoot all your shafts into the court:
Come, come, you talk greasily; your lips grow foul.
Exeunt
When would you have it done, sir?
Will maintain it with some little cost.
What power is it which mounts my love so high,
How doth my lady? Is my father well?
He falls forward
if you like her, so; if not, I have lost my earnest.
Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed
magistrates.
How canst thou make me satisfaction?
Went they not quickly, I should die with laughing.
Who knows not that the noble duke is dead?
Take you the lute, and you the set of books;
keep thy word justly; swear not; commit not with
Is fresh about me.
Yet, if this servile usage once offend.
fairs and market-towns. Poor Tom, thy horn is dry.
And I, to make thee mad, do mock thee thus.
thee a steward still, the fellow of servants, and
Of my revenge, thou present. But look to it:
Exit PRINCE HENRY
Enter SIR HUMPHREY and WILLIAM STAFFORD, with drum and soldiers
Why, no; for he hath made a solemn vow
Who hath a story ready for your ear.
It is to be all made of sighs and tears;
And ceremoniously let us prepare
O nuncle, court holy-water in a dry
your clowns speak no more than is set down for them;
vein of him.
and will come into 't? I hear say you are of
You said our work should cease.
It pleases your worship to say so, but we are the
And many more of noble fame and worth:
Art ignorant of what thou art, nought knowing
[Aside to ISABELLA]  You had marr'd all else.
To stop affliction, let him take his haste,
Arts-man, preambulate, we will be singled from the
present for any emperor that ever trod on neat's leather.
No, sir, you must not kneel.
Yes, if it please your majesty, my liege.
The gracious mark o' the land, you have obscured
Has only sent his present occasion now, my lord;
Ready. Name what part I am for, and proceed.
Your business of the world hath so an end,
Am I not an inch of fortune better than she?
Madam, methinks, if you did love him dearly,
There's no art
That she shall have; besides an argosy
Why, then, I do but dream on sovereignty;
monstrous members.
'Tis the way
your worship. Mistress Page hath her hearty
You would desire the king were made a prelate:
What they are used to bear.
Exeunt THESEUS, HIPPOLYTA, EGEUS, and train
The loss, the gain, the ordering on't, is all
That, being brought into the open air,
Your changed complexions are to me a mirror
Where but even now with strange and several noises
God dig-you-den all! Pray you, which is the head lady?
Both him and all his brothers unto reason.
most vilely in the afternoon, when he is drunk: when
Upon my life, Lamond.
God ye good even, William.
What's your name?
without it.
yet I wrong him to call him poor; they say the
And for her sake do I rear up her boy,
Striking too short at Greeks; his antique sword,
Enter COUNTESS, Steward, and Clown
And these he masters now: now he weighs time
Aside
so, Master Page? He hath wronged me; indeed he
know that of your mouth or of your lips; for divers
Who, Sir Andrew Aguecheek?
We will awake him and be sure of him.
It will not speak; then I will follow it.
You must not dare, for shame, to talk of mercy;
ACT II
We should take root here where we sit, or sit
For pilferings and most common trespasses
Here's a Bohemian-Tartar tarries the coming down of
The farthest limit of my embassy.
He shall to Parthia. Be it art or hap,
The lion moved with pity did endure
Exeunt
Ere't be disburden'd with a liberal tongue.
ACT I
A gentleman! what gentleman?
Contrived by art and baleful sorcery.
I would I were as sure of a good dinner.
If beauty, wisdom, modesty, can settle
To Tubal and to Chus, his countrymen,
Than if you had made waste of all I have:
And make it but a shadow, as I am.
I frown upon him, yet he loves me still.
Thou shalt not bail them: see thou follow me.
And the premised flames of the last day
It is religion that doth make vows kept;
What things again most dear in the esteem
Such a house broke!
And that most venerable man which I
Slander to the state! Away with him to prison!
Which from the vineyard to the garden leads;
An argument that he is pluck'd, when hither
He shall kill two of us, and men indeed:
Weary of all, shall want some.
rare enginer! If Troy be not taken till these two
he dead, bully stale? is he dead?
And blow it to the source from whence it came:
How Caesar hath deserved to lie in death,
For still thy eyes, which I may call the sea,
out of prawls, and prabbles' and quarrels, and
He's coming; I perceive 't.
Of officer and office, set all hearts i' the state
questions?
How now, bully-rook! thou'rt a gentleman.
Like men born to renown by life or death.
'Gainst thee, fell Clifford, and thee, false
would, are as secret as maidenhead; to your ears,
were set at eight i' the morning.
Here, here comes master Signior Leonato, and the
In general synod 'take away her power;
Such goodly things as you!
So much as from occasion you may glean,
That this great soldier may his welcome know.
But soft, behold! lo, where it comes again!
Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia!
Of heaven and men, her purposes; repented
does me this wrong. Terms! names! Amaimon sounds
My lord,
First, from the park let us conduct them thither;
fob off our disgrace with a tale: but, an 't please
Exeunt fairies
God bless the king!
In herbs, plants, stones, and their true qualities:
Tripping up his heels
Brought up as best becomes a gentlewoman:
She comes more nearer earth than she was wont,
I know not what the success will be, my lord; but
That most are busied when they're most alone,
Ay, I think my cousin meant well.
Look to her, Moor, if thou hast eyes to see:
And to his hand when I deliver her,
valiant flea that dare eat his breakfast on the lip of a lion.
Ay, but I hope, sir, that you love not here.
Enter Chancellor; places himself at the upper end  of the table on the left hand; a seat being left  void above him, as for CRANMER's seat. SUFFOLK,  NORFOLK, SURREY, Chamberlain, GARDINER, seat  themselves in order on each side. CROMWELL at lower end, as secretary. Keeper at the door
The king reposeth all his confidence in thee.
A piece of work that will make sick men whole.
Why should excuse be born or e'er begot?
Unto his princely brother presently?
a barren rascal? an you smile not, he's gagged:'
near nobody.
He has some reason, else he could not beg.
And he himself wander'd away alone,
Into this abbey, whither we pursued them:
He finds himself beholding to us all.
Enter LADY MACBETH, reading a letter
Which, to betray, dost, with thine angel's face,
Revenge it on him,--for I know thou darest,
A rhyme I learn'd even now
ANTIPHOLUS
Is as the maiden's organ, shrill and sound,
The better cherish'd, still the nearer death.
And clamour moisten'd: then away she started
Not one, my lord.
And wound her honour with this diffidence.
So much commend itself, you shall be ours:
Which, in the tender of a wholesome weal,
This bud of love, by summer's ripening breath,
But here's a parchment with the seal of Caesar;
No marvel, then, though he were ill affected:
And so I was; which plainly signified
He bears him like a portly gentleman;
marriage, and God give thee joy!
MOTH retires
When presently through all thy veins shall run
Again uncurse their souls; their peace is made
Of very reverend reputation, sir,
To cease this civil war, and, whilst I live,
Exeunt AGAMEMNON and MENELAUS
I care not for my spirits, if my legs were not weary.
Then is all safe, the anchor's in the port.
As if his life lay on't.
'Thanks, gentle citizens and friends,' quoth I;
Let's fight it out and not stand cavilling thus.
Bear mine to him, and so depart in peace:
the jealous knave their master in the door, who
What said our cousin when you parted with him?
As brittle as the glory is the face;
And counsel him to fight against his passion.
Madam, you're best consider.
Enter VALERIA, with an Usher and Gentlewoman
Help me, help me!
It is no matter; let no images
So please your highness,
And yet, good faith, I wish'd myself a man,
And, live we how we can, yet die we must.
First, lean thine aged back against mine arm;
Here come the lords of Buckingham and Derby.
Exit
The different plague of each calamity.
Chalks successors their way, nor call'd upon
[Aside]  No question of that; for I have seen him
For thou wast got i' the way of honesty.
that had received so much shame, you might begin an
Cry lost, and so good night!
But where's the great Alcides of the field,
increase and there was never virgin got till
Pucelle is enter'd into Orleans,
I go, my lord.
Dead.
Sir, this is the gentleman I told you of:
To have some conference with your grace alone.
against whom I know most faults.
It is the show and seal of nature's truth,
Sure, Luciana, it is two o'clock.
There is not one word apt, one player fitted:
All length is torture: since the torch is out,
Exit CATESBY
To the Fool
To blazon it, then sweeten with thy breath
seas, live in fire, eat rocks, tame tigers; thinking
A common slave--you know him well by sight--
What does the tyrant?
O, fear him not;
Or like to men proud of destruction
humour on me; that is the very note of it.
Of thy success in love, and what news else
I will not budge for no man's pleasure, I.
This and much more, much more than twice all this,
Why, what canst thou tell, my boy?
wind were down, I could drive the boat with my sighs.
Without corrival, all her dignities:
brother are hard by, with the king's forces.
And, toward the education of your daughters,
I left no reverend person in this court;
SCENE I. Cyprus. A street.
Uncle, you say the queen is at your house;
Exit
We must be married, or we must live in bawdry.
Unless self-charity be sometimes a vice,
To be acknowledged: thou a sceptre's heir,
Signior Iachimo will not from it.
Yet have I something in me dangerous,
Nothing in love: now does he feel his title
And what says she to my little jewel?
bereave you o' the deeds too, if she call your
The Earl of Salisbury craveth supply,
Interprets for my poor ignorance.
Would scour these English hence? Hear'st thou of them?
This is a poor epitome of yours,
His Philomel must lose her tongue to-day,
Look on my George; I am a gentleman:
wild of Kent hath brought three hundred marks with
Before young Talbot from old Talbot fly,
What is the name?
Enforce the present execution
I warrant they have made peace with Bolingbroke.
Condition, I had gone barefoot to India.
Scarf up the tender eye of pitiful day;
With such accommodation and besort
I should have fear'd her had she been a devil.'
From him that has most cause to grieve it should be,
The sooner, sweet, for you.
Throw over her the veil of infamy:
Never believe me. Both are my kinsmen:
In dreadful trial of our kingdom's king!
hand. Why tribute? why should we pay tribute? If
If he may be repeal'd, to try his honour.
Nor friends nor foes, to me welcome you are:
Ay, sir, when he goes before me.
To leave the Talbot and to follow us.
Are these the breed of wits so wonder'd at?
If I had given you this at over-night,
But wherefore waste I time to counsel thee,
If I may trust the flattering truth of sleep,
Shall find their deaths, if York can prophesy.
Thy grief is but thy absence for a time.
If what I now pronounce you have found true:
Constant in spirit, not swerving with the blood,
Should not in this best garden of the world
Why, your lieutenant, Cassio. Good my lord,
Go, rate thy minions, proud insulting boy!
That little thinks she has been sluiced in's absence
But were we burdened with like weight of pain,
He smiled at it: I told him you were coming:
down, obey him: quickly, dispatch.
But in battalions. First, her father slain:
Wherefore? tell true.
On business to my brother Cassius.
Let hell make crook'd my mind to answer it.
A guide, a goddess, and a sovereign,
world; let his nobility remain in's court. I am for
Enter Captains and Soldiers
That durst disperse it.
Shall enter me with him.
all my trumpery; not a counterfeit stone, not a
The small'st opinion on my least misuse?
Thy tooth is not so keen,
and I sall quit you with gud leve, as I may pick
A strange beginning: 'borrow'd majesty!'
Strike up our drums, to find this danger out.
Fled this way, sir. When by no means he could--
To see thy noble uncle thus distract?
He'll be hang'd yet,
Well met; good morrow, Titus and Hortensius.
As soft as dove's down and as white as it,
High-witted Tamora to gloze with all:
She shall not need; we'll meet her in the field.
Love! his affections do not that way tend;
O Seigneur Dieu, je m'en oublie! de elbow. Comment
All the infections that the sun sucks up
Nor other satisfaction do I crave,
ear withal, but I will tell thee aloud 'England is
Yes, if I make my play.
A' should not bear it so, a' should eat swords first:
Exeunt
Who finds her, give her burying;
Which well appeared in his lineaments,
Might with a sally of the very town
Here may his head lie on my throbbing breast:
And there will we be too, ere it be long,
What talk you of the posy or the value?
Enter FERDINAND, with a paper
Cloten, thou double villain, be thy name,
Such an act
Is only Helena. To her, my lord,
Of him that best could speak, for feature, laming
Doth it not flow as hugely as the sea,
That cause sets up with and against itself!
Than history can pattern, though devised
And yet, forsooth, she is a virgin pure.
Though you, it seems, come from the fliers.
Flourish. Exeunt
He hath indeed, almost natural: for besides that
But go at once.
Thus men may grow wiser every day: it is the first
your appointment, go in your place; if the encounter
her, do; I will gyve thee in thine own courtship.
That my remembrance warrants. Had I not
and spends what he borrows kindly in your company.
As I do love my father.
Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.
Have knit again, and fleet, threatening most sea-like.
on me. Thou art violently carried away from grace:
And with you take the chain and bid my wife
What, art thou waking?
Ay, by my sceptre and my hopes of heaven.
Lady Cressida. I come to speak with Paris from the
Happy be Theseus, our renowned duke!
Doth any one accuse York for a traitor?
All westward, Wales beyond the Severn shore,
Here's a skull now; this skull has lain in the earth
So wither'd and so wild in their attire,
In blood of princes; and their wounded steeds
ACT IV
O, by no means: she mocks all her wooers out of suit.
seven, two, tree hours for him, and he is no come.
His grace is entering. Nay, you must not freeze;
Since virtue finds no friends--a wife, a true one?
These oaths and laws will prove an idle scorn.
Why might not you, my lord, receive attendance
'Tis so with me. Let us withdraw together,
I wrote him Imogen was slain: 'tis strange:
Thou map of woe, that thus dost talk in signs!
O, not by much.
Being an ordinary inundation;
And with some sweet oblivious antidote
Good word nor look: what, are my deeds forgot?
Which he in this adventure hath surprised,
The oldest hath borne most: we that are young
Exit BIANCA
Whereto thy speech serves for authority,
Ay, Margaret; my heart is drown'd with grief,
As gardeners do with ordure hide those roots
Farewell the neighing steed, and the shrill trump,
I like it well that our fair queen and mistress
my labour; if she be otherwise, 'tis labour well bestowed.
cry 'The devil!'
Where Brutus may but find it; and throw this
I kiss the wall's hole, not your lips at all.
For well you know here comes in embassy
Which craves as desperate an execution.
Torments will ope your lips.
The insulting hand of Douglas over you,
Accomplish'd with the number of thy hours;
What canst thou wish thine enemy to be?
Here is such patchery, such juggling and such
We hope to make the sender blush at it.
Save this of hers, framed by thy villany!
I must be answer'd. Dost thou hear, Camillo,
raised the wall and houses too.
Or be accused of folly. I shall tell you
beholding to your wives for: but he comes armed in
Here were the servants of your adversary,
Dismiss me!
Stay but a little, I will come again.
On pain to be found false and recreant,
And try if they can gain your liberty.
Not a whit, when it jars so.
Marry, sir, lullaby to your bounty till I come
yellow stockings, and wished to see thee ever
When I spake darkly what I purposed,
With words of sooth! O that I were as great
what she would have given; briefly, I have pursued
And sheathed their swords for lack of argument:
the same kind! This would make mercy swear and play
To the Senators
To look into this business thoroughly
bannerets about thee did manifoldly dissuade me from
Nor any unproportioned thought his act.
Nothing but this! yes, as much love in rhyme
Nor shall not be the last; like silly beggars
Be not so long to speak; I long to die,
Is pale cold cowardice in noble breasts.
Come, try upon yourselves what you have seen me.
this other day, because I was no gentleman born.
Lie drown'd and soak'd in mercenary blood;
Enter SEBASTIAN and Clown
I have this day received a traitor's judgment,
Right, you say true: as Hereford's love, so his;
for thy daughters as thou canst tell in a year.
Fie, fie! unknit that threatening unkind brow,
The weary sun hath made a golden set,
They vanish'd strangely.
That in gold clasps locks in the golden story;
wept for the death of a third husband. But it is
Now is the woodcock near the gin.
wager, first begins to crow?
I idly heard; if true or false I know not.
Reads
Feel, then.
They say, one Taurus.
For a fair victory.
So thrive it in your game! and so, farewell.
Talks as familiarly of roaring lions
Thou little valiant, great in villany!
Wink each at other; hold the sweet jest up:
Now am I like that proud insulting ship
Or overthrow incurable ensues.
I yet not understand the case myself.
This was my lord's best hope; now all are fled,
Thus bad begins and worse remains behind.
Only shape thou thy silence to my wit.
delightful ostentation, or show, or pageant, or
Enter the BASTARD
And yet, I think, jet did he never see.
Who hath most fortunately been inform'd
ACT II
For France, 'tis ours; and we will keep it still.
What, are you married?
But, after all this fooling, I would not have it so.
Are brazen images of canonized saints.
Must cast thee, scarcely coffin'd, in the ooze;
Now he importunes him
And majesty might never yet endure
Exeunt
O, marry me to one Frances: I smell some l'envoy,
Alarum within. Enter DUNCAN, MALCOLM, DONALBAIN, LENNOX, with Attendants, meeting a bleeding Sergeant
Stands Scotland where it did?
Hast thou no mouth by land? What is the news?
What man thou art.
But like of each thing that in season grows.
For I have gain'd by 't.
He hath a drug of mine; I pray his absence
As much as in him lies, from time to time
What the devil should move me to undertake the
Hie to high fortune! Honest nurse, farewell.
Tell the empress from me, I am of age
All sects, all ages smack of this vice; and he
But shall you on your knowledge find this way?
As perfectly is ours as yours, my lord;
To a most dangerous sea; the beauteous scarf
not what I seek, show no colour for my extremity; let
I'll lock thy heaven from thee.
They're welcome all; let 'em have kind admittance:
I'll bear thee hence, where I may weep my fill.
O, my oblivion is a very Antony,
'Tis very late, she'll not come down to-night:
Three crabbed months had sour'd themselves to death,
wife about her husband's neck, hardly to be shook
The purest treasure mortal times afford
Thou mightst be freed.
and make a stock-fish of thee.
O bloody Richard! miserable England!
Is now converted: but now I was the lord
And duty never yet did want his meed:
O'ermount the lark. The Marchioness of Pembroke!
Whatever I shall happen to devise.
That every day under his household roof
In every one of these no man is free,
Enter ROMEO
We have lingered about a match between Anne Page and
The body is with the king, but the king is not with
And look'd upon things precious as they were
take cold. Holla, ho! Curtis.
O, he's a lovely gentleman!
sold many laces.
The most infectious pestilence upon thee!
Let fortune go to hell for it, not I.
But I will never be a truant, love,
He would embrace the means to come by it.
Discipled of the bravest: he lasted long;
the poor. If the wars eat us not up, they will; and
at home, he had lived.
Scorning whate'er you can afflict me with.
They never flatter'd thee: what hast thou given?
If they can brook I bow a knee to man.
Did not go forth of us, 'twere all alike
neither, in respect of his quick sail. But, in the
Away! you are an ass, you are an ass.
Master Brook, that you have cozened of money, to
That all the miseries which nature owes
Of what hath moved you.
Why, and I trust I may go too, may I not? What,
And he wants wit that wants resolved will
For, were he, he had shown it in his looks.
Throca movousus, cargo, cargo, cargo.
I do in birth deserve her, and in fortunes,
What, hath the firmament more suns than one?
Still ride in triumph over all mischance.
hither: let it be thy lint service; go.
For strokes received, and many blows repaid,
Any thing in or out of our demands,
A deadly groan, like life and death's departing.
seven groats in mill-sixpences, and two Edward
Spoke like a tail fellow that respects his
Saw her abed, and in the morning early
Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
ACT V
Even in the jaws of danger and of death.
Tybalt, Mercutio, the prince expressly hath
At courtship, pleasant jest and courtesy,
Besides, to be demanded of a sponge! what
SCENE I. Rome. A public place.
Ah, wherefore dost thou urge the name of hands;
You wrong this presence; therefore speak no more.
Of crow-flowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples
If Alcibiades kill my countrymen,
I'll prove a tyrant to him. As for you,
That hath aspired to Solon's happiness
Truly, madam, if God have lent a man any manners, he
O, let my sovereign turn away his face
Distinguishes the swift, the slow, the subtle,
And laugh this sport o'er by a country fire;
In which, good friar, I shall desire your help.
Hath brought me up to be your daughter's dower,
I have received a hurt: follow me, lady.
Sir Topas, never was man thus wronged: good Sir
Such as the fury of ungovern'd youth
The greatest wrong of all. He lost a wife
Go, bid her hide him quickly from the duke.
have perceived a most faint neglect of late; which I
Enter Poet, Painter, Jeweller, Merchant, and others, at several doors
And, Will you, nill you, I will marry you.
Head, and butt! an hasty-witted body
And wound our tattering colours clearly up,
Has Page any brains? hath he any eyes? hath he any
SCENE IV. Tyre. A room in the Governor's house.
Enter BAPTISTA, GREMIO, TRANIO, KATHARINA, BIANCA, LUCENTIO, and others, attendants
But as you shake off one to take another;
Look, how you butt yourself in these sharp mocks!
That Antony speak in his funeral:
professes a hot-house, which, I think, is a very ill house too.
Fare thee well, nymph: ere he do leave this grove,
Being banish'd for't, he came unto my hearth;
We have not spoke us yet of torchbearers.
What say'st thou, my lady?
Nor know I you by voice or any feature:
But men are men; the best sometimes forget:
Much more for what I cannot do for you
Out upon you! what a man are you!
If she sustain him and his hundred knights
Thinking that I mean him, but therein suits
thing hereafter.
To who? to thee? What art thou? Have not I
here comes Doctor Caius.
My soul hath her content so absolute
O, lawful let it be
In this sad wreck? How came it? Who is it?
To this detested groom.
Name him.
And, aroint thee, witch, aroint thee!
Live, and thrive!
Where fair is not, praise cannot mend the brow.
If this poor trash of Venice, whom I trash
Go thou with him; and when it is thy hap
Come, cousin you shall be the messenger.
being bid to ask what he would of the king, desired
The gates of mercy shall be all shut up,
shall be married to-morrow:
By and by.
Speak frankly as the wind;
Fie, fie, fie! cuckold! cuckold! cuckold!
When most struck home, being gentle wounded, craves
once more search with me.
Plucking the entrails of an offering forth,
There is so hot a summer in my bosom,
By my halidom, I was fast asleep.
This discipline shows thou hast been in love.
You are in the state of grace.
But doubt discovery there. Will you grant with me
Nay, certainly to-night;
Willing to leave their burthen. Reach a chair:
before the gods, I am not able to do,--the more
And whither fly the gnats but to the sun?
Making it light to Cassio. Cassio, I love thee
My lord, I have news to tell you.
Why, you are so fat, Sir John, that you must needs
But will you be more justified? You ever
And yet I would not sleep: merciful powers,
What feats he did that day: then shall our names.
In France, amongst a fickle wavering nation:
Peace, Trojan; lay thy finger on thy lips!
thousand of these letters, writ with blank space for
Is that the law?
'Tis well thou'rt gone,
yet, a barful strife!
And towards himself, his goodness forespent on us,
She was a widow,--
And he's as tetchy to be woo'd to woo.
But do not like to stage me to their eyes:
You have show'd a tender fatherly regard,
Fie on her! see, how beastly she doth court him!
To hear the replication of your sounds
Thy father, Minos, that denied our course;
he is best, he is a little worse than a man, and
And tread upon his neck.
That knows the tinct and multiplying medicine,
Here is my hand: you shall from this time be
Bid him repair to us to Ely House
Exeunt
By you unhappied and disfigured clean:
When thou hast hung thy advanced sword i' the air,
As if the strings were thine, shouldst know of this.
Whiles a wedlock-hymn we sing,
A comfortable doctrine, and much may be said of it.
To-night all friends.
Not you, correct him. My heart weeps to see him
she'll be ashamed.
traverse; to see thee here, to see thee there; to
Why should a man, whose blood is warm within,
He shall be whipped through the army with this rhyme
Say that she be; yet Valentine thy friend
Two things provided more, that, for this favour,
Whilst upon me the guilty doors were shut
What's like to be their words: 'we did request it;
Enter HELICANUS and ESCANES, with other Lords of Tyre
With his surcease success; that but this blow
Let's carve him as a dish fit for the gods,
'Here follow her vices.'
Follow me, then. Lord Helicane, a word.
the middle on's face?
Peace, headstrong Warwick!
English John Talbot, captains, calls you forth,
to thee. My revenge is now at Milford: would I had
that Worthy's thumb: he is not so big as the end of his club.
Deserve such pity of him as the wolf
Shalt see me once more strike at Tullus' face.
Blush not in actions blacker than the night,
SCENE I. The same.
And stops my tongue, while heart is drown'd in cares.
I must show out a flag and sign of love,
You'ld be king o' the isle, sirrah?
Tapers they are, with your sweet breaths puff'd out.
Though the seas threaten, they are merciful;
Who worse than a physician
But we'll outface them, and outswear them too.
Is not my friend: this, to confirm my welcome;
Which only lives but by the death of faith,
my foe to sweat:
Enter BERTRAM and the two French Lords
He had, before this last expedition, twenty-five
Worthy many babes and beggars!
But this thy countenance, still lock'd in steel,
Into my private meditations?
presently, and swoon for what's to come upon thee.
Your honour and your goodness is so evident
Rarely, rarely:
Exit
This royal infant--heaven still move about her!--
What imports the nomination of this gentleman?
To win thee, lady. But, alas the while!
Now, by heaven,
I think the duke will not be spoke withal.
Of treasonous malice.
I told you; my lord.
Then mightst thou speak, then mightst thou tear thy hair,
The help of mine own eyes.
Beseech your patience. Peace,
Reads
killed him. Why may not he rise as well as I?
And though she be but little, she is fierce.
Pistol him, pistol him.
To HENRY BOLINGBROKE
Sit, sir.
And all eyes else dead coals! Fear thou no wife;
Your were is alike to reap a proper man:
Hark! she speaks: I will set down what comes from
That's not so good: he cannot like her long.
But now I am cabin'd, cribb'd, confined, bound in
Haste there before us: I constantly do think--
These ruin'd pillars, out of pity, taken
Mistress Ford. Now shall I sin in my wish: I would
For exile hath more terror in his look,
Speak, Agrippa.
He makes a July's day short as December,
Ay, noble lord.
You have abused me:
Exeunt
Exit above
My lord!
True nobility is exempt from fear:
And will not use a woman lawlessly.
discontent: his comfortable temper has forsook him;
But we will presently provide for them.
O, thou art wise; 'tis certain.
God-den to your worship, good Captain James.
That does infect the land: with which they moved
If such a one be fit to govern, speak:
Why he more than another?
To purge this field of such a hilding foe,
God shall forgive you Coeur-de-lion's death
Come, come and lay him in his father's arms:
do you know me?
Pale Hecate's offerings, and wither'd murder,
MARCIUS is shut in
Well hast thou spoken, cousin: be it so.
Or any other ground inhabitable,
I'll none of it. Honour is a mere scutcheon: and so
Is there no remedy?
This is most strange,
But you say she's honest.
Thy brother was a furtherer in the act.
'Tis ready, sir, here in the porch.
Ay, so, God be wi' ye;
Yield up, O love, thy crown and hearted throne
Which thou heard'st cry, which thou saw'st sink. Sit down;
That's not my fault: he's master of my state:
And though he came our enemy, remember
You lie out on't, sir, and therefore it is not
More tight at this than thou: dispatch. O love,
Bassanio, lord Love, if thy will it be!
Give us the foils. Come on.
To think on this, and shall I lack the thought
Exit
And, when the tale is told, bid her be judge
What villain touch'd his body, that did stab,
All her perfections challenge sovereignty:
Tarry, good Beatrice. By this hand, I love thee.
We are beastly, subtle as the fox for prey,
The great prerogative and rite of love,
You got it from her: she call'd the saints to surety
knew yourself with your judgment, the fear of your
Or both dissemble deeply their affections:
Dishonour'd thus, and challenged of wrongs?
Fortune is an excellent moral.
He that hath kill'd my king and whored my mother,
I am sorry, one so learned and so wise
To search the secret treasons of the world:
A more satiety of commendations.
'For,' quoth the king, 'an angel shalt thou see;
summer-birds are men. Gentlemen, our dinner will not
hands. Are they all ready?
And not my brother.
My noble brother!
Welcome, my son: who are the violets now
Some wine, ho!
Ha! what, so rank? Ah ha!
You shall, Mark Antony.
Come, I'll convey thee through the city-gate;
No better.
I never wish'd to see you sorry; now
From whose so many weights of baseness cannot
And my kind kinsman, warriors all, adieu!
Lord Douglas, go you and tell him so.
You shames of Rome! you herd of--Boils and plagues
Of my nation! What ish my nation? Ish a villain,
If I were not in love with Mopsa, thou shouldst take
Importunes personal conference with his grace:
Let me wipe off this honourable dew,
And you by land.
O Brutus!
My services which I have done the signiory
To show my duty in your coronation,
Well, I will be so much a sinner, to be a
My royal fox could reach them: I have seen a medicine
testify your bounty, I thank you, you have testerned
Stand close, and list him.
No more my grief, in such a precious loss.
That he quit being, and his gentle lady,
To him had left it solely.
Enter TIMON, from the cave
Braved in mine own house with a skein of thread?
Paulina! She had one eye declined for the loss of
Which I will bear in triumph to the king,
Is't possible?
To honour me as thy king and sovereign,
His word upon you. Since I had my office,
Lavinia, how say you?
Steal me awhile from mine own company.
That swift as quicksilver it courses through
Thy dearest quit thee.
Since many a wooer doth commence his suit
The more I stay, the more I'll succor thee.
'tis not to come; if it be not to come, it will be
Young Ned, for thee, thine uncles and myself
Masks for faces and for noses;
O, she's warm!
Exit
What may be sworn by, both divine and human,
O excellent young man!
Stokesly and Gardiner; the one of Winchester,
That I would have spoke of:
I would your spirit were easier for advice,
Thanks, gentle Romans: may I govern so,
And spur thee on with full as many lies
Unto the citizens, who haply may
Fought on the day of Crispin Crispianus.
Nor set down aught in malice: then must you speak
Shall show the better. Do not consent
An alarum: excursions. BEDFORD, brought in sick  in a chair. Enter TALBOT and BURGUNDY without:  within JOAN LA PUCELLE, CHARLES, BASTARD OF ORLEANS, ALENCON, and REIGNIER, on the walls
This, here before you.
My mind's not on't; you are too hard for me.
She shall not.
Hold, Richard, hold; for we have done too much.
Sirs, take up the corse.
And monarchs to behold the swelling scene!
When we are born, we cry that we are come
Reads
And, Richard, do not frown upon my faults,
To give him annual tribute, do him homage,
And he whose pious breath seeks to convert you,
The one has my pity; not a jot the other,
Than common sleep of all these five the sense.
With fingers long, small, white as milk;
My lord, your promise for the earldom,--
How modest in exception, and withal
Madam, we are here.
I led them on in this distracted fear,
God and Saint George! Richmond and victory!
Re-enter Knight
A life's but a span;
Are you content to be our general?
Into your private chamber, we shall give you
Through the false passage of thy throat, thou liest.
My surname, Coriolanus: the painful service,
Will now deny to dance? she that makes dainty,
Being once perfected how to grant suits,
Given private time to you; and you yourself
Like sacrifices, by their watchful fires
Runs not this speech like iron through your blood?
I mean, the fashion.
Now, Master Shallow, you'll complain of me to the king?
But let them measure us by what they will;
Hereby, upon the edge of yonder coppice;
Shall yield them little, tell the constable.
Were you sworn to the duke, or to the deputy?
Hath wrought this hellish mischief unawares,
And I do haunt thee in the battle thus
You soothed not, therefore hurt not: but
And give the king this fatal plotted scroll.
Who's there?
Hector was but a Troyan in respect of this.
Desiring thee to lay aside the sword
Ingross'd by swift impress; in Caesar's fleet
God, so long as your majesty is an honest man.
but in his clothes; and one that hath spoke most
No, indeed.
obtained her, give her to Count Claudio.
I will consider; what you have to say
My precious queen, forbear;
That hath deprived me of your grace and favour;
And mark how well the sequel hangs together:
Thyself hast loved; and I have heard thee say
Were in his time thought false, and Sinon's weeping
Than savages could suffer: thou didst drink
Thou hast painfully discover'd: are his files
And otherwise will Henry ne'er presume.
That I may save my speech: do but go after,
You do him wrong, surely.
It is no sin at all, but charity.
Told thee no lies, made thee no mistakings, served
you, and you shall be married to-morrow.
home! it rejoiceth my intellect: true wit!
A wandering vagabond; my rights and royalties
Here is the head; I'll carry it myself.
Be such a gosling to obey instinct, but stand,
This is the monkey's own giving out: she is
You see it lawful, then: it is no more,
O the gods!
That know the strong'st and surest way to get.
Besides, he hates me for my father Warwick;
The sin upon my head, dread sovereign!
For he was likely, had he been put on,
See Brutus at his house: three parts of him
When the hurlyburly's done,
A table set out. Enter DUKE SENIOR, AMIENS, and Lords like outlaws
Let it be known to him that we are here.
Who dare cross 'em,
Of you, my sons; and till this present hour
that lord; he's ever sending: how shall I thank
Prithee, allow the wind.
Exit
Thump then and I flee.
rib-breaking? Shall we see this wrestling, cousin?
Can justly praise but what he does affect:
Lash hence these overweening rags of France,
Had left no mourning widows for our death;
As sun to day, as turtle to her mate,
Ay, my lord; even so
From open haunts and popularity.
blessedly lost wherein such preparation was gained:
And bring you back, charming the narrow seas
If the redress will follow, thou receivest
myself notice of my brother's purpose herein and
Beseech you, tenderly apply to her
No thought can think, nor tongue of mortal tell.
men would carry coals. They would have me as
And, sir, it is no little thing to make
Yet he would be king on't.
Not now, sweet Desdemona; some other time.
And she in mild terms begg'd my patience,
More than mistrust, that shows him worthy death.
Fit in his place and time.
How much of his displeasure.
And put it in his pocket!
What, that an eel is ingenious?
But stop no wrinkle in his pilgrimage;
We did observe. Cousin Aumerle,
Speak, count, 'tis your cue.
Were brass impregnable, and humour'd thus
Grecian, thou dost not use me courteously,
trot as well, were some of your brags dismounted.
Opinion's but a fool, that makes us scan
I am not merry; but I do beguile
I am a gentleman.
But hateful docks, rough thistles, kecksies, burs,
But, I beseech you, what's become of Katharine,
The city ports by this hath enter'd and
Why do you speak so faintly?
Should we be silent and not speak, our raiment
'Faith, half asleep.
Say, Earl of Suffolk--if thy name be so--
Should drive upon thy new-transformed limbs,
Where mine his thoughts did kindle,--that our stars,
Of all the voices that we have procured
I am not sick, if Brutus have in hand
I'll sweeten thy sad grave: thou shalt not lack
My father dead, my fortune lives for me;
Thou map of honour, thou King Richard's tomb,
Wherein he might the king his lord advertise
Lord Angelo is severe.
some commerce with my lady, and will by and by depart.
And, being prostrate, thus he bade me say:
To wait upon this new-made empress.
For that I do suspect the lusty Moor
Away, Sir Corporal Nym!
And, by his soul, thou and thy house shall rue it.
Those bated that inherit but the fall
Is that the naked fellow?
Enter ROBIN
in his youth an inland man; one that knew courtship
He is a sick man that would speak with you.
When you do find him, or alive or dead,
Impostors to true fear, would well become
I bought an unction of a mountebank,
To stop devoted charitable deeds?
Proportionable to the enemy
Choose Caesar for their king.
This eye shoots forth! how big imagination
And what's in prayer but this two-fold force,
And revel in Lavinia's treasury.
opinion by this worn out.
You are all resolved rather to die than to famish?
And strong enough to issue out and fight:
How now, Sir Proteus, are you crept before us?
You are too absolute;
My praises made thee first a soldier, so,
To you they have show'd some truth.
and sowl the porter of Rome gates by the ears: he
The fit is momentary; upon a thought
As thus, to drop them still upon one place,
Have vanquish'd the resistance of her youth,
O, give me leave:
Arrest them to the answer of the law;
Re-enter MARIA
The other part reserved I by consent,
You amaze me, ladies: I would have told you of good
Should therein make me vile, the common body,
too that die against their wills; so should I, if I
I pray you, be content; 'tis but his humour:
out of my love to you, I came hither to acquaint you
Seize upon Fife; give to the edge o' the sword
king! in you it best lies; otherwise a seducer
Had gone to gaze on Cleopatra too,
Now, Iras, what think'st thou?
I'll well remember you.
Prithee, unpin me,--have grace and favour in them.
Enter MARK ANTONY and SCARUS, with their Army
The very minute bids thee ope thine ear;
Put on for villany; not born where't grows,
By and by.
to me may be nothing but 'Anon.' Step aside, and
I never tempted her with word too large;
are your parts: and I am to entreat you, request
And speak his very heart.
If Hamlet from himself be ta'en away,
And they did make no noise, in such a night
much more handsome than fine. One speech in it I
Royal commanders, be in readiness:
This is old: what is the success?
So be sure will Rosalind.
If you can make't apparent
'Twas her two sons that murder'd Bassianus;
As he shall smile, Othello shall go mad;
general run then? were not that a botchy core?
methinks I have given him a penny and he renders me
I am not in a sportive humour now:
Know'st thou not any whom corrupting gold
My holy lord of Milan, from the king
thrift. Briefly, I do mean to make love to Ford's
To hunt this day: the boy Fidele's sickness
And here, to do you service, am become
That came too lag to see him buried.
You are already Love's firm votary
From ashes ancient Gower is come;
To entertain't so merrily with a fool.
This was no damsel, neither, sir; she was a virgin.
I doubt not but thy training hath been noble.
Why dost thou call them knaves? thou know'st them not.
I never heard such a drawling, affecting rogue.
With him, my lord; for he hath done me wrong.
Nay, good, sweet husband! Good gentlemen, let him
ANTIPHOLUS
By all the reverend fathers of the land
Therefore my merchandise makes me not sad.
He may show what outward courage he will; but I
her succor, which were the hope o' the Strand, where
Our Lady help my lord! he'll be forsworn.
sentenced and stay upon execution.
scene that I would see, which will be merely a
the third time; I hope good luck lies in odd
He will return; and hope I may that she,
So much misconstrued in his wantonness.
When usurers tell their gold i' the field;
Menas, I'll not on shore.
No, Plantagenet,
Come, come.
called so in mine own house before.
Even in the matter of mine innocence;
I be not thine. To this I am most constant,
To look into the blots and stains of right:
I play'd the fool, it was my negligence,
That to your wanting may be minister'd.
The precious jewel of thy home return.
Into my husband's hands. This trusty servant
Enter NERISSA, dressed like a lawyer's clerk
Exit
Lest, growing ruinous, the building fall
Wax dim, as drawing to their exigent;
Enter a Servant
Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY
I am not Barbason; you cannot conjure me. I have an
How's this? how's this? Some more; be sage.
This morning come before us; where, I know,
To join with men in scorning your poor friend?
Within that space you may have drawn together
Then enterprise is sick! How could communities,
not hurt: it is a thoroughfare for steel, if it be not hurt.
necessary. It is said, 'many a man knows no end of
And who abstains from meat that is not gaunt?
Then the charm is firm and good.
me, yet have I the benefit of my senses as well as
You hold too heinous a respect of grief.
turned my daughter into green; and, indeed, she is
She excels each mortal thing
Away, good Ned. Falstaff sweats to death,
And that it was great pity, so it was,
The ambitious ocean swell and rage and foam,
Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man
More than three hours the fight continued;
these signs;
So Caesar shall not find them.
Ay, and burn too.
Choose your own company, and command what cost
And then the whining school-boy, with his satchel
It is young Orlando, that tripped up the wrestler's
Yet, know thou, since we have begun to strike,
She is alone the Arabian bird, and I
And dotage terms so.
Of all thy suitors, here I charge thee, tell
And knows all qualities, with a learned spirit,
No, faith, my coz, wish not a man from England:
Near Birnam wood
Adorn his temples with a coronet,
With mutual cunning, 'twixt Albany and Cornwall;
I'll fetch a turn about the garden, pitying
Our country manners give our betters way.
of the benefit defends the deceit from reproof.
Camillo, sir; I spake with him; who now
Not working with the eye without the ear,
I prithee, Lucio, do me this kind service:
this woman.
Have studied physic, through which secret art,
Fare you well: had you such a loss as I,
Meet me all by break of day.
too, and ambiguities.
than any the rarest of our ladies in France.
salad, or rather, the herb of grace.
Wherefore rejoice? What conquest brings he home?
You elements that clip us round about,
I do desire it.
Our dreadful marches to delightful measures.
Were like a better way: those happy smilets,
Let us wag, then.
Do you dare our anger?
Music, still
Was broke in twain; by whom I have forgot,
I from my mistress come to you in post;
To give up willingly that noble title
Either be patient, and entreat me fair,
For our advantage; therefore hear us first.
Sweet sir, you honour me.
Ah, that this sight should make so deep a wound,
From off the battlements of yonder tower;
Is it a custom?
Unmasking
Two mighty eagles fell, and there they perch'd,
That will prove awful both in deed and word.
This is his uncle's teaching; this is Worcester,
Gallow the very wanderers of the dark,
RICHARD
Cry mercy, lords and watchful gentlemen,
O perjured woman! thou dost stone my heart,
Peace, tender sapling; thou art made of tears,
See suitors following and not look behind,
Exeunt
Continue in my liking? nay, gave notice
She curtsies to KING HENRY VIII, and offers to depart
God match me with a good dancer!
The business of this man looks out of him;
Yes, something you can deny for your own
Exeunt
I hear it sing i' the wind: yond same black
Ah, well-a-day! he's dead, he's dead, he's dead!
that I found; it beggars any man that keeps it: it
Has much disgraced me in't; I'm angry at him,
The business present: 'tis his highness' pleasure
If it appear not plain and prove untrue,
Enter AJAX, armed; AGAMEMNON, ACHILLES, PATROCLUS, MENELAUS, ULYSSES, NESTOR, and others
If they perceive dissension in our looks
When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
myself like one that I am not acquainted withal;
Which busy care draws in the brains of men;
Varro's
And even as I was then is Percy now.
And breed a kind of question in our cause;
Good heart, and, i' faith, I will tell her as much:
Have after. To what issue will this come?
O, that's a brave man! he writes brave verses,
Of this day's journey, and from nine till twelve
A hound that runs counter and yet draws dryfoot well;
His further gait herein; in that the levies,
I bless the time
Pale or red?
Wantest thou eyes at trial, madam?
Do, I prithee; but yet have the grace to consider
Ay, no; no, ay; for I must nothing be;
That she did give me, whose posy was
second cock: and drink, sir, is a great
fourteen,' an hour after; 'a trifle, a trifle.' I
courser, for my horse is my mistress.
speak in a monstrous little voice. 'Thisne,
Or else for want of idle time, could not again reply;
On the tabour to the Worthies, and let them dance the hay.
Doth valour's show and valour's worth divide
I'll change my black gown for a faithful friend.
A noble company! what are their pleasures?
And laid good 'scuse upon your ecstasy,
ACT V
And I have been all this day to avoid him. He is
As you have whisper'd faithfully you were,
[Reads]  'He is one of the noblest note, to whose
Pray you, no more of this; 'tis like the howling
Hast thou not spirit to curse thine enemy?
To match my friend Sir Thurio to my daughter.
And therefore is Love said to be a child,
Any thing.
Yet, gracious madam, bear it as you may:
'Faith, no; as you may season it in the charge
Than I can wish to adders, spiders, toads,
He and his lady both are at the lodge
you shall go; so shall you, Master Page; and you, Sir Hugh.
Why then should I be consul? By yond clouds,
is Claudio. I have known when there was no music
Yea, my good lord.
I count myself in nothing else so happy
passion without some instruction. It is not words
I mean your malice, know, officious lords,
You are betroth'd both to a maid and man.
Pardon, dear father.
What must I say?
Good Enobarbus, make yourself my guest
With all my heart
To tell thee thou shalt see me at Philippi.
belly, ashore at Windsor? How shall I be revenged
Who kept him in captivity till he died.
find in their hearts the poor unvirtuous fat knight
Nor wink, nor nod, nor kneel, nor make a sign,
If like a Christian thou hadst truly borne
I had no judgment when to her I swore.
And breath of life, I have no life to breathe
She is corrupted, changed and won from thee;
Will you? I shall but lend my diamond till your
Corrupt, corrupt, and tainted in desire!
curs; throw some of them at me; come, lame me with reasons.
For the most gentle Claudio.
The word is too good to paint out her wickedness; I
Lest it make you choleric and purchase me another
Wanting his manage; and they will almost
And that so lamely and unfashionable
Whose procreation, residence, and birth,
Come hither, ere my tree hath felt the axe,
Each heart in Rome does love and pity you:
Why didst thou send me forth, brave Cassius?
One of my sex; no woman's face remember,
Witches vanish
Pleaseth your highness, ay: here they are, madam:
Who cannot steal a shape that means deceit?
Thou livest; report me and my cause aright
Tut, Lucius, this was but a deed of charity
to find you out there: you have well saved me a
And this deceit loses the name of craft,
And little mouse, every unworthy thing,
Made to his mistress' eyebrow. Then a soldier,
Dost thou think Alexander looked o' this fashion i'
I am so much a fool, should I stay longer,
man a doit.
To cool a gipsy's lust.
And never, since the middle summer's spring,
In half an hour she promised to return.
Give me some ink and paper.
To kill their gracious father? damned fact!
Good sooth, it show'd well in you: do so now:
the ort 'dissolutely:' the ort is, according to our
Enter EDMUND, and CURAN meets him
Re-enter second Servingman
Let's all sink with the king.
Lean, raw-boned rascals! who would e'er suppose
ANTIPHOLUS
Our aery buildeth in the cedar's top,
How well supplied with noble counsellors,
Of all our fortunes.
Re-enter LUCIUS, QUINTUS, MARTIUS and MUTIUS, with their swords bloody
Save you, good madam.
In braving arms against thy sovereign.
The tears have got small victory by that;
My vow was earthly, thou a heavenly love;
More free from motion, no, not Death himself
That most desired the match; but not a courtier,
now, come apace to the king: there is more good
Southampton.
the seaside, browsing of ivy. Good luck, an't be thy
Where are these lads? where are these hearts?
But that I seek occasion how to rise,
Into something rich and strange.
As it is known she is, these moral laws
For, in conclusion, he did beat me there.
Nothing is good, I see, without respect:
And where this breach now in our fortunes made
Is the determined respite of my wrongs:
The sides of loyalty, and almost appears
Great Herod to incline himself to Caesar,
such volubility, that you would think truth were a
What is amiss plague and infection mend!
Than your own weak-hinged fancy, something savours
If we have lost so many tenths of ours,
My salad days,
Haste me to know't, that I, with wings as swift
fable: some certain special honours it pleaseth his
'Tis e'en so: the hand of little employment hath
Is he among these?
You may not pass, you must return: our general
Not I, but my affairs, have made you wait:
No, my most worthy master; in whose breast
bear this significant
O, I know him well, I, sir; he, sir, 's a good
good purpose. Doth your honour mark his face?
power and corrigible authority of this lies in our
Say that she frown, I'll say she looks as clear
To strut before a wanton ambling nymph;
And wisdom of my council; but I find none.
Would any of the stock of Barrabas
I mean to stride your steed, and at all times
But am in that dimension grossly clad
For when I am revenged upon my charm,
A friend.
And dare, upon the warrant of my note,
This, my lord.
To each incensed will. I would your highness
Well, well, put up your sword.
I have gone all night. 'Faith, I'll lie down and sleep.
Security, I'll pawn my victories, all
Nay, take away this scolding crookback rather.
I know thee now: how farest thou, soldier?
This do thou for my love; and so let him,
The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
And not to grace an awful princely sceptre.
But Moyses and Valerius follow him.
CURIO and Attendants retire
Trumpets sound within
or whensoever, provided I be so able as now.
Nine Worthies.
To see it tetchy and fall out with the dug!
An honest tale speeds best being plainly told.
Philip, what say'st thou to the cardinal?
The enemy more mighty than he seems:
Is this thy cunning, thou deceitful dame?
More mild, but yet more harmful, kind in hatred:
All levied in my name, have in my name
Parts that become thee happily enough
Conserved of maidens' hearts.
I sometimes do believe, and sometimes do not;
That have no use for trusting. If your master
O Doricles,
For I shall never hold that man my friend
Were he more angry at it.
Which lets go by some sixteen years and makes her
Thus Joan la Pucelle hath perform'd her word.
Our course will seem too bloody, Caius Cassius,
would desires to be acquainted withal.
stubborn outside, with an aspect of iron, that, when
The potent poison quite o'er-crows my spirit:
Should have shook lions into civil streets,
Did I go through a tempest dropping fire.
Exeunt
It shall not neither. You, sir, come you hither;
as the morality of imprisonment. What's thy
Thou comest not, Caius, now for tribute that
Words before blows: is it so, countrymen?
And be resolved he lives to govern us,
Speak, man.
Young man, thou couldst not die more honourable.
you.
Will no more hear from thence.
And, in strong proof of chastity well arm'd,
Walk, and be cheerful once again; reserve
To find the other forth, and by adventuring both
Yea, an 'twere a thousand pound more than 'tis; for
I will watch to-night;
I saw upon her finger.
I myself heard the king say he would not be ransomed.
She has deceived her father, and may thee.
be thought we keep a bawdy house straight.
Nor claim no further than your new-fall'n right,
I am too old to fawn upon a nurse,
Drum and colours. Enter MALCOLM, SIWARD and YOUNG  SIWARD, MACDUFF, MENTEITH, CAITHNESS, ANGUS, LENNOX, ROSS, and Soldiers, marching
That thou hast under-wrought his lawful king
If thou darest bring them to the baiting place.
DON
Macbeth! Macbeth! Macbeth!
For I am rightful heir unto the crown.
What torment I did find thee in; thy groans
Romeo that spoke him fair, bade him bethink
And ill-beseeming semblance for a feast.
I am Achilles.
Thither where more attends you, and you slander
have possessed her.
To rain a shower of commanded tears,
For I must think of that which company
Thy comforts can do me no good at all;
A man he is of honest and trust:
Be it his pleasure.
Then, York, be still awhile, till time do serve:
my ribs. Father, I am glad you are come: give me
depends on it than we must yet deliver. Thus fail
Do but behold yon poor and starved band,
When you disgraced me in my embassade,
And Julia herself hath brought it hither.
In my opinion yet thou seest not well.
her go through the streets, to know, sir, whether
And frustrate his proud will.
But great men tremble when the lion roars;
I'll send her straight away: to-morrow
Imparts this; which if you, or stupefied
By such a lowly vassal as thyself.
Are you the butcher, Suffolk? Where's your knife?
Hold, daughter: I do spy a kind of hope,
He is as like thee as a man may be,
What treason there is mingled with your love.
When you have spoken it, 'tis dead, and I am the
And then, to dry them, gavest the duke a clout
run into, in that it is a thing of his own search
given her his monumental ring, and thinks himself
will thaw.
How may we try it further?
Or break it all to pieces: or there we'll sit,
No, sir, it does not please me.
To PHEBE
And in his full and ripen'd years himself,
him: he had, sir, a kind of face, methought,--I
Look here, and at thy sovereign leisure read
But with my heart the other eye doth see.
And all the Greekish girls shall tripping sing,
Dost it enforcedly; thou'ldst courtier be again,
And pardon comes: I shall anon advise you
Or bring your latter hazard back again
My liege, her ear
Where, from thy sight, I should be raging mad,
A sceptre shall it have, have I a soul,
You have, my lord: would it might please your grace,
Have I done since I went.
For it engenders choler, planteth anger;
To lead 'em once again; and then let's dream
Or have a woman to your lord:
And thereof came it that the man was mad.
O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
Thou gavest thine ears like tapsters that bid welcome
That I may pass this doing.
Ay, my good lord.
And mothers that lack sons.
were pity of my life: no I am no such thing; I am a
Mardian, go tell him I have slain myself;
Look up a-height; the shrill-gorged lark so far
Why, it contains no king?
As great as is thy master, greater, for
walnut for his wife's leman.' Satisfy me once more;
Young fry of treachery!
So show her merit, that did miss her love?
sing, certainly.
Harpier cries 'Tis time, 'tis time.
Re-enter ARIEL like a water-nymph
With busy hammers closing rivets up,
Thou whoreson, senseless villain!
I may not prove inferior to yourself.
Till time had made them for us. But it chances
And keep our faiths firm and inviolable.
Exit
Till I find more than will or words to do it,
Despite thy victor sword and fire-new fortune,
To MARCIUS
Be not you spoke with, but by mighty suit:
any standers-by to curtail his oaths, ha?
Re-enter URSULA
And wilt encounter with my wrath, say so;
Did I but speak thy deeds. What committed!
turn; therefore say what a paragon she is, and thou
I will no more enforce mine office on you.
Exeunt
Is the sun dimm'd, that gnats do fly in it?
O, you give me ill counsel.
But say that he or we, as neither have,
That Romeo bid thee fetch?
Yea, distaff-women manage rusty bills
O old sir Robert, father, on my knee
To murder her I married.
Is't possible that on so little acquaintance you
If thou be there, sweet brother, take my hand.
I aim'd so near, when I supposed you loved.
And be no turncoats: yet may your pains, six months,
Do seem to be of ours?
His faults lie open to the laws; let them,
For then I should not love thee, no, nor thou
May hold together: on her frights and griefs,
would have it at the Lady Hero's chamber-window.
Therefore know I have earned of Don John a thousand ducats.
That give you cause to prove my saying true.
And a true lover of the holy church.
In his own change, or by ill officers,
He goes before me and still dares me on:
care; so far that I have eyes under my service which
We'll slip you for a season; but our jealousy
That he hath left part of his grief with me,
Now stops thy spring; my sea sha$l suck them dry,
Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting,
That are your prisoners,--
Hath stuff'd these hollow vessels with their power,
Enter OXFORD, with drum and colours
To North
I have look'd on thousands, who have sped the better
swimmer, Troilus the first employer of panders, and
Yet there he was; and there I found this credit,
Exit
What you have charged me with, that have I done;
Than that a sister, by redeeming him,
Her madness hath the oddest frame of sense,
I am worse than e'er I was.
You must report to the Volscian lords, how plainly
Your enigma?
And kept asunder. You, madam, shall with us.
Why,
I'll keep you company.
To seem to die ere sick: so please you, leave me;
In that thou seest thy wretched brother die,
Cold fearful drops stand on my trembling flesh.
What he deserves of you and me I know;
Malice domestic, foreign levy, nothing,
And for my tidings gave me twenty kisses.
Fetch hither Richard, that in common view
been into Thames, ere I will leave her thus. Her
Clapping their hands, and crying with loud voice,
I have sworn to do it;
Since now we will divest us both of rule,
For that I saw the tyrant's power a-foot:
Padua affords nothing but what is kind.
Too great for what contains it. Boy! O slave!
foul knave uncuckolded: therefore, dear Isis, keep
No matter.
Most fruitfully: I am there before my legs.
And, which became him like a prince indeed,
Fell into a sadness, then into a fast,
see where he looks out of the window.
Some other give me thanks for kindnesses;
for powder; they'll fill a pit as well as better:
And foul imaginary eyes of blood
Where is Nathaniel, Gregory, Philip?
Launce, away, away, aboard! thy master is shipped
The fearful passage of their death-mark'd love,
'Tis true: where is he, Denny?
What's the matter?
Mistress Overdone.
He has not with him.
And be no further harmful than in show.
Alack, why am I sent for to a king,
Which I do last pronounce, is, O you wonder!
Clarence, beware; thou keep'st me from the light:
under it, QUEEN ANNE in her robe; in her hair
Re-enter TROILUS
I will do't, my lord.
About his neck, yet never lost her lustre;
In love, i' faith, to the very tip of the nose.
Which better fits a lion than a man.
And of our labours thou shalt reap the gain.
O, lady, lady, shame would have it hid!
For you there's rosemary and rue; these keep
And, truly, I'll devise some honest slanders
To find out right with wrong, it may not be;
My youngest boy, and yet my eldest care,
Or, if he were not privy to those faults,
That sometimes savours nobly. But hear me this:
Which is infallible, to England's crown.
I would have you.
Fare you well, sir.
And every tale condemns me for a villain.
Only fair speech.
for a challenge.
By the gods, it is one. If I bring you no
Monday night, which he forswore on Tuesday morning;
In that and all your worthiest affairs.
Mortal revenge upon these traitorous Goths,
What should I stay--
And who durst mine when Warwick bent his brow?
And flat meads thatch'd with stover, them to keep;
He may at pleasure whip, or hang, or torture,
Flourish. Enter the DUKE of Florence attended; the two Frenchmen, with a troop of soldiers.
That fits as well as 'Tell me, good my lord,
Your loneliness. We are oft to blame in this,--
From his most famed of famous ancestors,
Re-enter CASSIO; with him MONTANO and Gentlemen; servants following with wine
sings at grave-making?
loves thee not: thou hast wronged Caius Ligarius.
What do you pity, sir?
I will not speak a word!
Are with more spirit chased than enjoy'd.
Their perch and not their terror.
Nor moody beggars, starving for a time
you.
In the day's glorious walk, or peaceful night,
mile of my court:' Hath this been proclaimed?
Beware the ides of March.
Most rich in Timon's nod.
PROLOGUE
Nay, 'tis strange, 'tis very strange, that is the
Yet filed with my abilities: mine own ends
Struck Caesar on the neck. O you flatterers!
The heavens so dim by day. A savage clamour!
I ever said we were i' the wrong when we banished
Nay, she is worse, she is the devil's dam; and here
Most likely, sir.
We two, that with so many thousand sighs
day he wrestled?
The worthy knight of Troy.
With tender Juliet match'd, is now not fair.
I will go wash;
And to my fortunes and the people's favor
alehouse of my lady's house, that ye squeak out your
she will plod. There must be conclusions. Well, I
Possess your fancy.
Yet there's as little justice as at land:
And do not shear the fleeces that I graze:
Come, Suffolk, I must waft thee to thy death.
Sleeps
No, no, on my soul, it never shall be said.
That is the butt-end of a mother's blessing:
Your master's confidence was above mine;
Gentlemen, there's some of worth would come aboard;
honestly; for, as you know, Master Froth, I could
Master Page, and eke Cavaleiro Slender, go you
The harder match'd, the greater victory:
The Viscount Rochford,--one of her highness' women.
Got 'tween asleep and wake? Well, then,
With his disease of all-shunn'd poverty,
his wringer.
The 'solus' in thy teeth, and in thy throat,
The severals and unhidden passages
If thou didst but consent
Why, now, blow wind, swell billow and swim bark!
Enter PUCK behind
to play it in?
Now, what says the world
For he hath wit to make an ill shape good,
Detest my baseness. I, that with my sword
beard is less than a man: and he that is more than
And bear the name and port of gentlemen?
Did they, quoth you? Who sees the heavenly Rosaline,
To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,
Nothing in France, until he has no wife!
Re-enter AARON, with QUINTUS and MARTIUS
These are the whole contents: and, good my lord,
By uproar sever'd, like a flight of fowl
Hath not thy rose a canker, Somerset?
A man that fortune's buffets and rewards
Well, let us go together.
A fever with the absence of her son,
So good, so noble and so true a master?
and to be melancholy; and here is part of my rhyme,
Let us be keen, and rather cut a little,
Speak freely, Syracusian, what thou wilt.
That gives them credit.
Except the marshal and such officers
O Lord, they fight! I will go call the watch.
So, now they come:
Know'st thou this paper?
she does so take on with her men; they mistook their erection.
Exit
I will frown as I pass by, and let them take it as
Enter LADY MACDUFF, her Son, and ROSS
Here is better than the open air; take it
Think on my words.
And by and by my master drew on him;
And thither will I straight to visit him:
Your royal fleet far off.
My care is loss of care, by old care done;
Mark Antony is in your tents, my lord
So, sir: I desire of you
What, not a word? you take your pennyworths now;
My father hath a reason for't.
Speaking in deeds and deedless in his tongue;
The wood of Birnam.
I pray thee, gentle keeper, stay by me;
I say unto you, what he hath done famously, he did
That were the slaves of drink and thralls of sleep?
You saw
Must rectify our knowledge.
Fly toward Belmont: come, Antonio.
To worthy danger and deserved death.
Exeunt LUCILIUS and Old Athenian
Madam,
Which I take to be either a fool or a cipher.
I pray thee, mark me--that a brother should
Might there not be a charity in sin
That charge their breath against us? say, scout, say.
He's walking in the garden--thus; and spurns
To execute upon him. Sir, this gentleman
All to the senate-house: some news is come
Madam, have comfort: all of us have cause
Are they not now upon the western shore.
No noise, my lord; but needful conference
Will he tell us what this show meant?
Unloading of his mules.
By sight of what I have, your noble company.
May unfold me to him; there stand I in much peril:
Fair payment for foul words is more than due.
direct them the way I am going, but such as wink and
Than nobleness and riches: careless heirs
you and shine through you like the water in an
SCENE III. Another part of the island.
lieve be a condemned man.
Cleopatra and himself in chairs of gold
She comes to do you good.
Is not this your son, my lord?
ANTIPHOLUS
And hang me up in chains!
Are come to have some conference with his grace.
Only it spoils the pleasure of the time.
what is thine?
Tell me once more what title thou dost bear:
it, spend it; spend more; spend all I have; only
By heaven, you did; and to confirm it plain,
By gar, me vill kill de priest; for he speak for a
And that she should love this fellow and refuse me!
Exit Cupid
Return again, and take an oath with thee.
He met the duke in the street, sir, of whom he hath
the time and outward habit of encounter; a kind of
Now, sir, how do you find the prisoner?
stairs into the lobby.
railed at herself, that she should be so immodest
compound with the major part of your syllables: and
Now am I Dromio and his man unbound.
unhappily; as of unnaturalness between the child
You see, my lord, how ample you're beloved.
O devil, devil!
DON
The more my prayer, the lesser is my grace.
O, a stool and a cushion for the sexton.
For single combat in convenient place,
For the same handkerchief?
the king's fair daughter Claribel to the King of Tunis.
By laboursome petition, and at last
And gave the tongue a helpful ornament,
guides. Who comes here?
purse, thou? Ah, how the poor world is pestered
God ye good den, fair gentlewoman.
Whose smile and frown, like to Achilles' spear,
And at the door too, like a post with packets.
O king, believe not this hard-hearted man!
I will do't:
It may be so, for it is not mine own.
Wherefore was I to this keen mockery born?
To my poor cell, where you shall take your rest
She will sing any man at first sight.
farther than to say 'do you in faith?' I wear out
I pray thee lend me thy lantern, to see my gelding
me one thing.
Why does be ask him of me?
You have done well by water.
in flesh and blood.
Am I Rome's slave? What penny hath Rome borne,
Is term'd the civil'st place of this isle:
Receiving them from such a worthless post.
But they will quake and tremble all this day.
Hold, sir, or I'll throw your dagger o'er the house.
Within the limit of becoming mirth,
As benefits to thee, for I will fight
Hath brought me to thy hearth; not out of hope--
And with our fair entreaties haste them on.
Bestride the rock; the tide will wash you off,
Some airy devil hovers in the sky
And for three months.
And kingly government of this your land,
It is, my lord.
Is run in your displeasure.
modesty which is so lost.
Why, one that swears and lies.
Fortune, that arrant whore,
I am vanquished; these haughty words of hers
But tell me; how was there a costard broken in a shin?
Unshaked of motion: and that I am he,
matters, but with awl. I am, indeed, sir, a surgeon
My legs, like loaden branches, bow to the earth,
A kingdom for a stage, princes to act
But now will canker-sorrow eat my bud
His business more material.
Well, he shall be beheaded for it ten times. Ah,
But since you come too late of our intents,
Mehercle, if their sons be ingenuous, they shall
Buys out the law: but 'tis not so above;
Opens the tomb
But leave their flocks; and, under your fair conduct,
hour: observe him, for the love of mockery; for I
Chiefly that I might set it in my prayers--
What judgment shall I dread, doing
The moon was a month old when Adam was no more,
What, was he sad or merry?
I would have made them skip: I am old now,
To what they were before. My pretty cousin,
Live here in heaven and may look on her;
In us, that are our own great deputy
That have this golden chance and know not why.
But in the estimation of a hair,
Exeunt
A boon, my sovereign, for my service done!
The same.
For blushing cheeks by faults are bred
unblessed and the ingredient is a devil.
The treasure in this field achieved and city,
To his father, that so tenderly and entirely
Enter CASSIO and IAGO
And sight of men.
everlasting liberty if I tell you of it; for he
Can equally move with them. Provide your going;
To fair Marina; but in no wise
so often blushed to acknowledge him, that now I am
A shower and thunder with their caps and shouts:
And bound I am to Padua; there to visit
'Good morrow, fool,' quoth I. 'No, sir,' quoth he,
Than what not stirs. The cry went once on thee,
Since fate, against thy better disposition,
For whose dear sake thou wast but lately dead;
Enter POLONIUS and REYNALDO
He thought 'twas witchcraft--but I am much to blame;
But for because he hath not woo'd me yet:
Well, he is gone; and with him go these thoughts.
And, if not so, how should I wrong a brother?
To hate young Valentine and love my friend.
Yet, if that quarrel, fortune, do divorce
odd quirks and remnants of wit broken on me,
What, weeping-ripe, my Lord Northumberland?
My recompense is thanks, that's all;
That is now answered.
and as mine honesty puts it to utterance.
Shake off this downy sleep, death's counterfeit,
Peter, didst ever see the like?
and thou shalt be welcome.
To the court of guard; he is of note: our hour
SCENE I. The house of ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus.
Sirrah, what tidings? have you any letters?
become the function well, nor lean enough to be
To PHILEMON
Wilt thou not hide the trespass of thine own?
But may not be so credulous of cure,
of this malapert blood from you.
So then you hope of pardon from Lord Angelo?
This is her honour!
That never saw the giant world enraged;
Great Earl of Washford, Waterford and Valence;
For youth is bought more oft than begg'd or borrow'd.
A phantasime, a Monarcho, and one that makes sport
Kissing TITUS
I have done my work in, friends: O, make an end
O love! O life! not life, but love in death!
Double, double toil and trouble;
I have perhaps some shallow spirit of judgement;
My hand shall go.
He was drunk then, my lord: it can be no better.
And all Europa shall rejoice at thee,
So flew'd, so sanded, and their heads are hung
Which parted from you?
But more in Troilus thousand fold I see
Now, pray you, let me see it; for mine eye,
Now to plain-dealing; lay these glozes by:
What Cressid is, what Pandar, and what we?
It was not lent me neither.
Why will my lord do so?
Why, he stalks up and down like a peacock,--a stride
believe it was done in fight, and persuaded us to do the like.
I would she were as lying a gossip in that as ever
Well;
To me you cannot reach, you play the spaniel,
I humbly thank you.
Ay, you spake in Latin then too; but 'tis no
What? I say,
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse
Our steed the leg, the tongue our trumpeter.
And I for comfort have but one false glass,
So I by that; it is my day, my life.
As all the metal in your shop will answer.
But for supporting robbers, shall we now
Where you may have such vantage on the duke,
A contract of true love; be not too late.
You could never do him so ill-well, unless you were
I have spoke; let him follow.
Francis Flute, the bellows-mender.
Shall all thy mother's hopes lie in one tomb?
him; for she'll be up twenty times a night, and
Cried 'Sisters! sisters! Shame of ladies! sisters!
No doubt, my lord.
Be't not in thy care; go,
And tried his inclination; from him pluck'd
commission for more heads: if this law hold in
Madam, good night: commend me to your daughter.
O, that a mighty man of such descent,
And writers say, as the most forward bud
I must become a borrower of the night
And, knowing how the debt grows, I will pay it.
Work not so hard: I would the lightning had
Ah, let me live in prison all my days;
Ever to read them thine.
Captain Macmorris, I beseech you now, will you
My daughter! O, my daughter!
Sons, let it be your charge, as it is ours,
He that flies so will ne'er return again.
Profess'd to him, why, his revenges must
But that you shall not say I yield being silent,
Not that I love you not.
I have not seen you long: how goes the world?
Good shepherd, tell this youth what 'tis to love.
called, my young lady asked for, the nurse cursed in
awhile with the maid: my mind promises with my
Lucius and I'll go brave it at the court:
I must entreat of you some of that money.
Up from my cabin,
I cannot think my sister in the least
Lives not this day within the city walls:
thee thine own goodness hath made; better not to
Of senators, of praetors, common suitors,
Wouldst thou have practised on me for thy use,
Observe how Antony becomes his flaw,
And, if it be so far beyond his health,
Enter, at one door KING HENRY, EXETER, BEDFORD,  GLOUCESTER, WARWICK, WESTMORELAND, and other Lords;  at another, the FRENCH KING, QUEEN ISABEL, the  PRINCESS KATHARINE, ALICE and other Ladies; the DUKE of BURGUNDY, and his train
[Aside]  How say you by that? Still harping on my
Committing me unto my brother's love;
I often came where I did hear of her, but cannot find her.
neither to his father nor to me, to go about to make
Now she holds me not;
For every man with his affects is born,
Most true, he does.
An thou wert a lion, we would do so.
Thou that wast born at sea, buried at Tarsus,
What is it else? a madness most discreet,
So that, dear lords, if I be left behind,
truly in my youth I suffered much extremity for
And she goes down at twelve.
companion, and he steals it.
Galling the gleaned land with hot assays,
Enter the Lords of the city
[Aside]  How from the finny subject of the sea
Commit my cause in balance to be weigh'd.
if this be not a lawful case for me to leave his
And so am I for Rosalind.
Why at our justice seem'st thou then to lour?
Graves, yawn and yield your dead,
And followed with a rabble that rejoice
When once she is my wife.
you, Sir John: you owe me money, Sir John; and now
Mine, full of sorrow and heart's discontent.
That he is mad, 'tis true: 'tis true 'tis pity;
Both your majesties
This speech of yours hath moved me,
I will stand for 't a little, though therefore I die a virgin.
With hounds of Sparta: never did I hear
instrument and play false strains upon thee! not to
Philarmonus!
Care no more to clothe and eat;
Sits mocking in our plumes. O merchante fortune!
Knowing aforehand of our merriment,
Return you thither?
Once more, take her hence.
God save you, gentlemen!
And, in that kind, swears you do more usurp
thee, Kate:
Why, as black as ink.
How so?
Who sent it? and what is it?
A Roman sworder and banditto slave
What sum owes he the Jew?
Good heaven, the souls of all my tribe defend
people against the senators, patricians, and nobles.
Traitor, if Rome have law or we have power,
Had from the conversation of my thoughts
Even to Cato's wish, not fierce and terrible
Unless thou say 'Prince Pericles is dead.'
If you do free your children from the sword,
compliment; I forgive thy duty; adieu.
Why, this would make a man a man of salt,
Enter LUCIO
So is it in the music of men's lives.
If, till the expiration of your month,
Verona's summer hath not such a flower.
I pray you, pardon me; I cannot speak.
No, God forbid that I should wish them sever'd
I trust to take of truest Thisby sight.
Ha!
I shall say so to him.
Is an arm'd knight that's conquer'd by a lady;
My Lord of Suffolk, say, is this the guise,
therefore be of good cheer, for truly I think you
Go speedily and bring again the count.
Is, that she will to virtuous Desdemona
humour of mine, sir, to take that that no man else
Enter ACHILLES, with Myrmidons
And that it should lie with you in your grave:
How dost thou like the Lord Bassanio's wife?
But signs of nobleness, like stars, shall shine
Let's see the boy's face.
And, being a woman, I will not be slack
Rescue thy mistress, if thou be a man.
My good lord,
head a gilt copper crown.
By sea and land; supplying every stage
How now, daughter and cousin! are you crept hither
were to say more than I know. That he is old, the
When it deserves, with characters of brass,
To whisper Wolsey,--here makes visitation:
Re-enter ULYSSES
An inviting eye; and yet methinks right modest.
That love's keen arrows make.
And worthy shameful cheque it were, to stand
Will have it thus; my master and my lord
confess nothing, nor I deny nothing. I am sorry for my cousin.
To the last penny; 'tis the king's: my robe,
The drug he gave me, which he said was precious
fie, fie! pah, pah! Give me an ounce of civet,
As thou lovest Silvia, though not for thyself,
As he will have me, how am I so poor?
Admired Miranda!
Nurse, where's my daughter? call her forth to me.
Go in with me: my duty cannot suffer
Will you help? an ass-head and a coxcomb and a
Fail not to use, and with what vehemency
Some dungeon.
you with a good name: to be a well-favoured man is
Taught him to face me out of his acquaintance,
Finely put on!
Enter CORIOLANUS, AUFIDIUS, and others
Golden lads and girls all must,
Shall falter under foul rebellion's arms.
And for that offence
On yon young boy: I'll tell thee what, my friend,
Well, be gone: I will not miss her.
Then thus it must be; this doth Joan devise:
By my so potent art. But this rough magic
Make you to ravel all this matter out,
After our great good cheer. Pray you, sit down;
Now, Antony, our hopes are answered:
By savage Cleon: she shall tell thee all;
But with such general warranty of heaven
SCENE I. Rome. BRUTUS's orchard.
No, yonder 'tis;
To the people! Coriolanus, patience!
I got this ring: 'twas Leonatus' jewel;
this condition, to be whipped at the high cross
And let your reason with your choler question
And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
Sir,
Here comes the prince and Claudio hastily.
Either in snuffs and packings of the dukes,
Returning were as tedious as go o'er:
Things growing are not ripe until their season
No, by my honour, madam, by my soul,
Enter TITANIA, with her train
Drops bloody sweat from his war-wearied limbs,
I am a simple woman, much too weak
Whom I affect; but she is nice and coy
O, step between her and her fighting soul:
The plague of Greece upon thee, thou mongrel
of; and void of all profanation in the world that
Here is a thing too young for such a place,
Exeunt
wronged by you.
scarce a maid westward but she sings it; 'tis in
In such an honour named. What's more to do,
She do defeat us; for her life in Rome
But not by him.
Is this most constant wife; who, even now,
Think'st thou it honourable for a noble man
ANTENOR passes
Thus will I save my credit in the shoot:
Brother, adieu: good fortune come to thee!
But bloody with the enemies of his kin.
Leaving our rankness and irregular course,
Even as men wrecked upon a sand, that look to be
O, I will to him and pluck out his eyes!
Puts back leave-taking, justles roughly by
She that would alter services with thee,
Hold, Peter, hold! I confess, I confess treason.
Buy thou a rope and bring it home to me.
Lysimachus our Tyrian ship espies,
the blow; unless it swell past hiding, and then it's
trimming; the other, that at dinner they should not
Exeunt OCTAVIUS, ANTONY, and their army
Love's thrice repured nectar? death, I fear me,
Great: for mine own part, I know not the degree of
'Tis strange my Theseus, that these
devil? When the blood is made dull with the act of
And not their appetites! I had rather be a toad,
that he comes not along with her.
Why tender juvenal? why tender juvenal?
Fidele, sir. I have a kinsman who
He cannot draw his power this fourteen days.
Your brother is imprison'd by your means,
And in that chair where kings and queens are crown'd;
A Roman thought hath struck him. Enobarbus!
And harmful pity must be laid aside.
No, friend, cannot you beg? Here's them in our
What should she remember?
Round about her tomb they go.
A forted residence 'gainst the tooth of time
Two nights together had these gentlemen,
This diamond he greets your wife withal,
Let me sit heavy on thy soul to-morrow!
Vouchsafe to wear this ring.
soul!' and forgave him with all their hearts: but
Ay me! sad hours seem long.
But no man's virtue nor sufficiency
I go, my lord.
Roderigo, if thou hast that in thee indeed, which I
She have restrain'd the riots of your followers,
May safely come to him, and be resolved
According to our proclamation gone?
Seal what I end withal! This double worship,
That, as a duck for life that dives,
about to say? By the mass, I was about to say
What reverence he did throw away on slaves,
Than I of yours;
Therefore at last I firmly am resolved
valiant Jack Falstaff, and therefore more valiant,
May give his saying deed; which is no further
My name is Corporal Nym; I speak and I avouch; 'tis
and let 'em win the work: the devil was amongst
To my keen curses; for without my wrong
You are well met, sir. You denied to fight with me
Rome, thou hast lost the breed of noble bloods!
That I was nothing.
Good sir, we must,
Behold our patroness, the life of Rome!
What would you with me, honest neighbour?
As if the world were all dissolved to tears,
'Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire.'
O, I could wish this tavern were my drum!
That hold their honours in a wary distance,
O monstrous treachery! can this be so,
And Paris too. Come, I'll dispose of thee
Yes, that thou hast, whether thou art tainted or free.
That sunder'd friends greet in the hour of death.
'Tis nothing but some bond, that he is enter'd into
With our discourse to make your grace to smile.
One thus descended,
Thou sheer, immaculate and silver fountain,
me: I serve her; she is my lady. Why, this is
Of horsemen, that were levied for this siege!
So went to bed; where eagerly his sickness
Thou common friend, that's without faith or love,
And damn'd all those that trust them! I did hear
I would thou wert so happy by thy stay,
Just death, kind umpire of men's miseries,
body in the house, here will be an old abusing of
That will not trust thee but for profit's sake?
Thus speaks of him at Rome: but I will hope
Doubly portcullis'd with my teeth and lips;
I had good argument for kissing once.
At a superfluous rate!
Then Antony,--but now--Well, on.
For do but stand upon the foaming shore,
quit. O, the charity of a penny cord! It sums up
We doubt not of a fair and lucky war,
SCENE III. The rebel camp near Shrewsbury.
In sign whereof I pluck a white rose too.
Re-enter EMILIA
That pages blush'd at him and men of heart
Which my lord paid for, be of any power
and scatter'd,
And after that trust to thee.
Hume, if you take not heed, you shall go near
We will aboard to night. Why, how now, gentlemen!
if thou beest capable of things serious, thou must
Till then, adieu; and keep this holy kiss.
As much in mock as mark.
With hostile forces he'll o'erspread the land,
[Aside]             What should this mean?
He were created knight for his good service.
An if they live, I hope I need not fear.
meat, sir, it shall be covered; for your coming in
Rancour will out: proud prelate, in thy face
Were enough noble to be upright judge
more of you.
It doth appear; for, upon these taxations,
Enter DUKE ORSINO, CURIO, and Attendants
Those rich-left heirs that let their fathers lie
Come, leave your drinking, and fall to blows.
Why pratest thou to thyself and answer'st not?
That such a keech can with his very bulk
Fulvia is dead.
I do confess the vices of my blood,
Commended to our master, not to us:
thee with scambling, and thou must therefore needs
For mine own part, I breathe free breath. I have
For when I was a king, my flatterers
What, blushing still? have you not done talking yet?
Take heed, my lord; the welfare of us all
Yet such is now the duke's condition
For his advice, nor thought I had one. She
If you did know to whom I gave the ring,
By her high forehead and her scarlet lip,
And of your choice, these reverend fathers; men
But that to your sufficiency as your Worth is able,
Exeunt Worthies
Thou art a fellow of a good respect;
This letter, then, to Friar Peter give;
And make a clear way to the gods.
You do me wrong to take me out o' the grave:
Is in thyself rebellion to thyself;
brothers in filching, and in Calais they stole a
Stay here.
And put you in the catalogue of those
Help, three o' the chiefest soldiers; I'll be one.
Your old kind father, whose frank heart gave all,--
those things you found about her, those secret
Has left the cause o' the king unhandled; and
For, I believe, they are portentous things
And she a mourning widow of her nobles,
Re-enter some of the Watch, with BALTHASAR
The master, the swabber, the boatswain and I,
No; God forbid your grace should be forsworn.
Amiss to tumble on the bed of Ptolemy;
with Benedick for his company; for, from the crown
made this treaty.--You and I have known, sir.
That Slender, though well landed, is an idiot;
I am afeard the life of Helen, lady,
Why looks your grace so heavily today?
And do upon mine altar sacrifice.
And drop my blood for drachmas, than to wring
And find delight writ there with beauty's pen;
To their right praise and true perfection!
That you unfold to me, yourself, your half,
other particularities.
combustion in the state. I missed the meteor once,
Very bootless.
Stuffs out his vacant garments with his form;
old fat man; a tun of man is thy companion. Why
bent against Caesar. If thou beest not immortal,
Fare thee well: commend me to them both: there's
yare, yare! Take in the topsail. Tend to the
Ay, now am I in Arden; the more fool I; when I was
You took occasion to be quickly woo'd
Add an immortal title to your crown!
Shows a ring
Hold, then; go home, be merry, give consent
on't. Sot, didst see Dick surgeon, sot?
Must, as a foreign recreant, be led
My lords, a solemn hunting is in hand;
that were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one
Infect the air! Twinn'd brothers of one womb,
Mighty and to be fear'd, than my condition;
To York-place, where the feast is held.
I, that I was
SCENE IV. The Shepherd's cottage.
Shall Rome,  and c. Speak, strike, redress!
Now thou and I are new in amity,
Please you to accept it, that the queen is spotless
Know thine own meaning, but wouldst gabble like
It shall be so: I'll send her to my house,
And prostitute me to the basest groom
That you have no such mirrors as will turn
Knight, knight, good mother, Basilisco-like.
No, but the loss of his own royal person.
Though not for Rome itself.
Thy exercise hath been too violent for
Mine innocent child?
bastards,--as, I think, I have brought up some eleven--
They are now starved for want of exercise:
Yet, ere thou go, but answer me one doubt,
disdained of all than to fashion a carriage to rob
Exit
But if that I am I, then well I know
And so to sea. Their vessel shakes
Peace, peace; be not so loud.
That I may pour my spirits in thine ear;
The fresh green lap of fair King Richard's land,
From the hard hands of peasants their vile trash
Let me see: marry, ill, to like him that ne'er it
Over the nasty sty,--
creditor but it; of what's past, is, and to come,
Either death or you I'll find immediately.
his weakness, and admire our sufferance. Bid him
Welcome, my lords. I wot your love pursues
Enter EARL OF SALISBURY
I  do pronounce him in that very shape
That could do no vengeance to me.
For me?
And rather proved the sliding of your brother
I thank thee, good Sir John, with all my heart.
SCENE I. Before LEONATO'S house.
Who neither looks upon the heaven nor earth,
Rebellious hinds, the filth and scum of Kent,
A thing inspired; and, not consulting, broke
Exeunt
So, sirs: now go some and pull down the Savoy;
Enter HELENA, Widow, and DIANA, with two Attendants
Monster, I do smell all horse-piss; at
Or, whilst I can vent clamour from my throat,
I would to God all strifes were well compounded.
Unsavoury news! but how made he escape?
And in the essential vesture of creation
Too fairly, Hubert, for so foul effect:
I could not answer in that course of honour
A strange tongue makes my cause more strange,
I have long loved her, and, I protest to you,
But more than these, in love I do deserve.
It is not very strange; for mine uncle is king of
Here comes my lord.
Of my dug and felt it bitter, pretty fool,
Enter EMILIA
Enter VIOLA, and Attendants
SCENE III. The tent of Coriolanus.
shall be humble. Few words to fair faith: Troilus
Where I did meet thee once with Helena,
Men judge by the complexion of the sky
the world bitter to the best of our times; keeps
is a 'oman that altogether's acquaintance with
Enter LAUNCELOT
believe all that they say, shall never be saved by
It might be yours or hers, for aught I know.
ANTIPHOLUS
Take this from this, if this be otherwise:
This grave shall have a living monument:
This is an aspic's trail: and these fig-leaves
And overheard what you shall overhear,
Derived from the ancient Capilet:
To his dog-hearted daughters, these things sting
SCENE I. A room in the castle.
And told me that by water I should die:
Exit
My Lord Bassanio, since you have found Antonio,
I would she were in heaven, so she could
[Aside to CARDINAL WOLSEY]
Not what he knew I was: he makes me angry;
What must be shall be.
You have made shift to run into 't, boots and spurs
How have the hours rack'd and tortured me,
See how my sword weeps for the poor king's death!
Exeunt all but TITUS
And will continue fast to your affection,
Since I suppose we are made to be no stronger
That's a fault that water will mend.
Not his that spoils her young before her face.
Should have kept short, restrain'd and out of haunt,
To my fortunes and me.
Or let us stand to our authority,
religious uncle of mine taught me to speak, who was
One that gives out himself Prince Florizel,
Values itself so highly that to her
I do not know the matter: he is 'rested on the case.
What, Brutus!
It is with a good will; I can tell you, it will
And I, of whom his eyes had seen the proof
You are rapt, sir, in some work, some dedication
meeting between him and my daughter.--My honourable
Mistress, your father prays you leave your books
God save your lordship!
I did, my lord;
God bless me from a challenge!
Or you deny me right. Go but apart,
I would that I were low laid in my grave:
There will I stay for thee.
And so far am I glad it so did sort
What is decreed must be, and be this so.
Who now are here, taking their leaves of me,
Nay, rather, every tedious stride I make
their courage
My Lord of Westmoreland, and uncle Exeter,
but my head and my neck. A fire good Curtis.
O tiger's heart wrapt in a woman's hide!
Enter two British Captains and Soldiers
To punish me for what you make me do.
Why, then, we kill all our women:
That tears shall drown the wind. I have no spur
Exit SALISBURY
A holy parcel of the fairest dames.
As wild Medea young Absyrtus did:
lately came from the king, commands the contrary.
Mistress! what, mistress! Juliet! fast, I warrant her, she:
so the third. Yonder they lie; the poor old man,
soft music playing; Gentleman, and others attending.
held the very garment of Posthumus in more respect
god's gold,
Welcome, destruction, death, and massacre!
Ay, sir.
Some shall be pardon'd, and some punished:
And carry with us ears and eyes for the time,
O Publius, is not this a heavy case,
Shall see this, and bless heaven.
Peace, I say, Gallia and Gaul, French and Welsh,
Then fiery expedition be my wing,
And had no help of anger: they were parted
Have loved it too: I would not change this hue,
Myself have often heard him say and swear
I thank your grace for this high courtesy,
bibble babble.
My master through his art foresees the danger
Will thereto be obedient, I have reason;
And thy father bore it:
Doth add more grief to too much of mine own.
Ha, ha!
Grim-visaged war hath smooth'd his wrinkled front;
I sent him from the mart. See, here he comes.
Why, what is Tybalt?
The news, Rogero?
Smother'd in errors, feeble, shallow, weak,
Why should she write to Edmund? Might not you
The debt he owes will be required of me.
Not to the beast that would usurp their den.
My thrice-driven bed of down: I do agnise
Give me thy hand.
How now? moody?
one puritan amongst them, and he sings psalms to
O, had thy grandsire with a prophet's eye
The winds did sing it to me, and the thunder,
Call him in.
Enter SHYLOCK
Will you not tell me who told you so?
Supper is done, and we shall come too late.
'Tis thou and those that have dishonour'd me.
Confusion fall--
'Tis the best brine a maiden can season her praise
I have operations which be humours of revenge.
And so am come abroad to see the world.
there will she sit in her smock till she have writ a
If you will bless me, sir, and give me leave,
Thou art a robber,
royalty of her father: draw, you rogue, or I'll so
But let us hence, my sovereign, to provide
When they should serve their sovereign in the west?
Unbind my hands, I'll pull them off myself,
Back to the Duke of Gloucester, tell him so.
To which that blast gives heat and stronger glowing;
Here, sweet lord, at your service.
seems to cast water on the burning bear,
Cesario is your servant's name, fair princess.
Words, words, mere words, no matter from the heart:
Maiden, no remedy.
We shall have old swearing
With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino,
Help, Jupiter; or we appeal,
other day. I said, thou hadst a fine wit: 'True,'
grant this.
For every false drop in her bawdy veins
I'll take her to my guard.
To come to me forthwith.
And even these three days have I watch'd,
My parts, my title and my perfect soul
When he would force it? Sure, it is no sin,
Set this device against Malvolio here,
My snuff and loathed part of nature should
customary gown.
Why, no, sir.
Thou hadst, and more, Miranda. But how is it
Break an hour's promise in love! He that will
I understand you not, my lord.
If your lordship find him not a hilding, hold me no
But doth rebate and blunt his natural edge
softly towards my kinsman's.
Al'ce madam, or Joan madam?
I might have look'd upon my queen's full eyes,
He counsels a divorce; a loss of her
A hot friend cooling: ever note, Lucilius,
'Thou shalt not steal'?
Exit
The other makes you proud. He that trusts to you,
Now Phaethon hath tumbled from his car,
'Tell me what fate awaits the Duke of Suffolk?
Where are they? Gone? Let this pernicious hour
Turns into yellow gold his salt green streams.
I had thought to have held it poor: but, since my lord
'Bring action hither, this cannot go to war:
I say she never did invent this letter;
And that Count Claudio did mean, upon his words, to
My bed was ever to thy son as true
Here's a villain!
Against her will! good king, look to't in time;
And you shall understand from me her mind.
Basta; content thee, for I have it full.
Well, I shall see her to-day. Hold, there's money
Alas, alas!
The air of paradise did fan the house
If it be banish'd from the frosty head,
Is privilege for thy departure hence:
She seemingly obedient likewise hath
Yet I must speak. Choose your revenge yourself;
Free lords, cold snow melts with the sun's hot beams.
As to upbraid you with those kindnesses
O thou sweet king-killer, and dear divorce
I'll geld 'em all; fourteen they shall not see,
There; and St. Nicholas be thy speed!
And not protector, of the king or realm.
is the justice, which is the thief? Thou hast seen
Brother, for in that name doth nature plead,--
thy conscience flies out.
That hunger broke stone walls, that dogs must eat,
He cares not for your weeping. Speak thou, boy:
Let them puff all about mine ears, present me
Ay, my good lord: our time does call upon 's.
go, good Tubal; at our synagogue, Tubal.
Cry.
An if you leave me so, you do me wrong.
For him I imitate: O, if it prove,
Restores his heart: when valour preys on reason,
You may not so extenuate his offence
good my lord, do not recompense me in making me a cuckold.
In tempting of your patience; but am bolden'd
That you express content; which we will pay,
I conjure thee by all the saints in heaven!
All's true that is mistrusted: that false villain
Yes, forsooth: I wish you joy o' the worm.
There lay he, stretched along, like a wounded knight.
[To TITUS]  Two of thy whelps, fell curs of
Fall deep in love with thee; and her great charms
Varro's Servant	Thou art not altogether a fool.
Why then, we'll make exchange; here, take you this.
I swear I will not die to-day for any man's
Or touch of her good person?
Come, come; sans compliment, what news abroad?
Or whether since he is advised by aught
So likely an ambassador of love:
Stones have been known to move and trees to speak;
Nay, 'tis most credible; we here received it
Let's before as he bids us: he was provided to do us good.
And by whose help I mean to chastise it.
That hadst a wife once call'd AEmilia
Thou art past the tyrant's stroke;
I do not well understand that. Will you play upon
Doth all the winter-time, at still midnight,
Study is like the heaven's glorious sun
As Stephen Sly and did John Naps of Greece
monster indeed, if they were set in his tail.
Ay, beauty's princely majesty is such,
And where we are our learning likewise is:
Never to hold it up again! the spirits
I could have better spared a better man:
Was never mother had so dear a loss!
And both preposterous; therefore, not 'good lord.'
Begin his fashion: do not talk of him,
Enter TAMORA, DEMETRIUS, and CHIRON, disguised
[Behind]  What, ho! help, help, help!
Making that idiot, laughter, keep men's eyes
Which, too much minded by herself alone,
Told of a many thousand warlike French
Sauf votre honneur, de elbow.
As I have loved this proud disdainful haggard.
SCENE I. Rome. Titus's garden.
perfection of a good and particular mistress.
Shall think themselves accursed they were not here,
In summer's drought I'll drop upon thee still;
'Here you may see Benedick the married man.'
Than words can witness, or your thoughts can guess.
And hear at large discoursed all our fortunes:
A counterpoise, if not to thy estate
Exit an Attendant
Lend less than thou owest,
Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.
To a dear friend of the good Duke of York's,
Therefore no more turn me to him, sweet Nan.
ANTIPHOLUS
I'll stay with patience; but the time is long.
Crying 'Villiago!' unto all they meet.
Nay, but do, then;
Where several worthies make one dignity,
Saving your tale, Petruchio, I pray,
Neglect me, lose me; only give me leave,
A caitiff recreant to my cousin Hereford!
A horse and a man
Out, devil! I remember them too well:
I am your husband, if you like of me.
But on the sight of us your lawful king,
And I will be revenged on them all.
You to your former honour I bequeath;
I had rather, forsooth, go before you like a man
He has my heart yet; and shall have my prayers
Exeunt
Why stops my lord, shall I not hear my task?
as he was fortunate, I rejoice at it; as he was
On the dank and dirty ground.
And Lewis a prince soon won with moving words.
I fly not death, to fly his deadly doom:
We arrest your word.
fantastical; too, too vain, too too vain: but we
I know you wise, but yet no farther wise
As I would wish mine enemy.
For it is done, my lord.
To view the artillery and munition;
It did me good, before the palace gate
O poor Orlando, thou art overthrown!
And careful hours with time's deformed hand
Than Jephthah's, when he sacrificed his daughter.
It eats the sword it fights with. I will seek
Where the dead corpse of Bassianus lay:
No, no, I am a rascal; a scurvy railing knave:
Give but that portion which yourself proposed,
And mortal eyes cannot endure the devil.
But, lords, in all our bloody massacre,
To seal the accuser's lips. Get thee glass eyes;
Thou shalt not know the sound of thine own tongue.
And, being credulous in this mad thought,
Despite his nice fence and his active practise,
Heavy! belike it hath some burden then?
English tailor come hither, for stealing out of
Cousin, farewell; and, uncle, bid him so:
Your state of fortune and your due of birth,
Or turn our stern upon a dreadful rock
Make raging battery upon shores of flint.'
I cannot draw a cart, nor eat dried oats;
My father made in compassing the crown!
Most noble Caesar! We'll revenge his death.
Boys, we'll go dress our hunt. Fair youth, come in:
Wilt thou not stoop? Now cursed be the time
Depart again: here, here will I remain
No needful thing omitted.
But from her handmaid do return this answer:
Seize on the shame-faced Henry, bear him hence;
Which made me down to throw my books, and fly--
question him yourself.
Suffolk first died: and York, all haggled over,
shepherd. Put not yourself into amazement how these
That thunders, lightens, opens graves, and roars
SCENE IV. The same.
O Clifford, boisterous Clifford! thou hast slain
Their papers, is more lawful.
But only painted, like his varnish'd friends?
And says that once more I shall interchange
Has desperate want made!
Say, Voltimand, what from our brother Norway?
Now humble as the ripest mulberry
What should I see then?
A fearful eye thou hast: where is that blood
She is not bred so dull but she can learn;
Should nothing privilege him, nor partialize
That's a day longer than a wonder lasts.
perfect gallows. Stand fast, good Fate, to his
Of every beardless vain comparative,
Exit LE BEAU
and so sweet a breath to sing, as the fool has. In
And she is fair too, is she not?
How hardly I was drawn into this war;
it. Here hung those lips that I have kissed I know
'Faith, nothing but an empty box, sir; which, in my
He was a man; this, in respect, a child:
Be rough and razorable; she that--from whom?
O Corin, that thou knew'st how I do love her!
O Ratcliff, I fear, I fear,--
Here, take my ring:
For charity itself fulfills the law,
Be truly welcome hither: I am the duke
Exit
Of great Apollo's priest; and that, since then,
As is the night before some festival
SCENE XII. Egypt. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's camp.
Mark what I say. Attend me where I wheel:
Thanks, gentle sir.
And take down the interest into their
To have her match'd: and having now provided
the moon, I care not.
having in that perished vessel the dowry of his
She will be sick else. This day, no man think
What is the opinion of Pythagoras concerning wild fowl?
That have endured shrewd days and nights with us
Alas, poor Proteus! thou hast entertain'd
Orlando?
staff understands me.
We o'er-raught on the way: of these we told him;
nunnery, go: farewell. Or, if thou wilt needs
No, by my life and soul!
My Lord of Suffolk, within fourteen days
Besides I say and will in battle prove,
I have almost slipp'd the hour.
That find such cruel battle here within?
Nay, then I cannot blame his cousin king,
The purple testament of bleeding war;
she for a woman, God bless us.
Prepare, I say. I thank you, gracious lords,
petticoat: and indeed the tears live in an onion
By making many. O, it grieves my soul,
Got's will, and his passion of my heart! I had as
The flat transgression of a schoolboy, who, being
My lord hath interest in them, I will keep them
Amongst the loving Welshmen canst procure,
marks of sovereignty, knowledge, and reason,
Had his great name profaned with their scorns
I'll to the king; and signify to him
and he's a man good enough, he's one o' the soundest
Thou basest thing, avoid! hence, from my sight!
Re-enter Servant
comparison--had been something too fair and too good
'tis turned to a rusty armour.
And give them burial as beseems their worth.
Came to me, as I follow'd Henry's corse,
Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
Is she become the suitor?
'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves:'
Stand, stand! We have the advantage of the ground;
But that which ends all counsel, true redress,
For, certes, these are people of the island--
In second accent of his ordnance.
Or else what lets it but he would be here?
That say thou art a man: Diana's lip
Doth your lordship call?
will prove those verses to be very unlearned,
Been struck so to the soul that presently
When we have march'd our rackets to these balls,
Enter AENEAS
And after shipwreck driven upon this shore.
In spite of spite, alone upholds the day.
But I did find him still mine enemy:
to undo Hero and kill Leonato. Look you for any
To unstable slightness: purpose so barr'd,
O'er-picturing that Venus where we see
With heigh! the sweet birds, O, how they sing!
If they return in their own shapes to woo?
O peers of England, shameful is this league!
Upon's again.
With flight and agued fear! Mend and charge home,
And you.
affection the one with the other. I would fain have
thou shouldst have heard how her horse fell and she
recovered the most dangerous piece of lechery that
I must and will have Katharina to my wife.
Get you with him, you old dog.
The world and my great office will sometimes
And top extremity.
Cleopatra,
Exeunt ROSALIND, CELIA and CORIN
At duty, more than I could frame employment,
But in conclusion put strange speech upon me:
Your horror's pardon:
Say Warwick was our anchor; what of that?
Which would be great impeachment to his age,
No.
A shop of all the qualities that man
Hadst thou descended from another house.
Is purchase of a heavy curse from Rome,
was never man thus abused. I am no more mad than you
What wrong is this unto the prince your son!
And I am tied to be obedient;
Think therefore on revenge and cease to weep.
I can hook to me: say that she were gone,
Keep up your bright swords, for the dew will rust them.
There's nothing level in our cursed natures,
But what's his offence?
Even at the base of Pompey's statua,
of the young gentleman gives him out to be of good
My grisly countenance made others fly;
SCENE II. The same. The Presence chamber.
Your betters have endured me say my mind,
my learning.
Tears then for babes; blows and revenge for me
SCENE II. Before Bourdeaux.
Exeunt
'Twere needful I denied it. My affairs
Pray, do not, sir: I have watched and travell'd hard;
when I left him.
My only love sprung from my only hate!
Than my heart cool with mortifying groans.
Tush, fear not, man; we'll tip thy horns with gold
sick, or angry?
Were those that went on each side of the queen?
Converting all your sounds of woe
Sweeten the bitter mock you sent his majesty,
Enter DUKE SOLINUS, attended; AEGEON bareheaded; with the Headsman and other Officers
Of bloody strokes and mortal-staring war.
Hearing so much, will speed her foot again,
But not approach'd.
For the fair kindness you have show'd me here,
thee, out with't, and place it for her chief virtue.
It is, my lord.
aqua-vitae or some other hot infusion; then, raw as
By love's own sweet constraint, and will for ever
The thing I am, by seeming otherwise.
I will prove it legitimate, sir, upon the oaths of
To give us warrant from the hand of heaven
[Reads]  'sorted and consorted, contrary to thy
If you do chance to hear of that blind traitor,
Never did thought of mine levy offence;
is the image of a murder done in Vienna: Gonzago is
is a nobleman in town, one Paris, that would fain
Have fought with equal fortune and continue
But pay me terms of honour, cold and sickly
Exeunt MERCUTIO and BENVOLIO
He might have kept that glory to this day;
I weigh my friend's affection with mine own;
Mark'd he your music?
And, if you can be merry then, I'll say
I am angling now,
the guilt of premeditated and contrived murder;
Was of more danger, did compound for her
Not a penny. I have been content, sir, you should
And you, Sir Walter Herbert, stay with me.
should buy first, as if my trinkets had been
You're fall'n into a princely hand, fear nothing:
To TRANIO
Whither?
We are inforced to farm our royal realm;
Are drown'd and lost in his calamities.
Her assured credit. Blessed live you long!
[Aside]  The devil speaks in him.
Seems he a dove? his feathers are but borrowed,
be his dole! He that runs fastest gets the ring.
Why, there then: thus I do escape the sorrow
Enter DIOMEDES
Look to thyself, thou art in jeopardy.
And threw the sops all in the sexton's face;
Thou hast thine own form.
redeliver our authorities there
I was compell'd to her; but I love thee
How fares our cousin Hamlet?
Retaining but a quantity of life,
O, good my lord, tax not so bad a voice
To help me sort such needful ornaments
That is a good William. What is he, William, that
all he was in woman's apparel, I would not have had
Say that upon the altar of her beauty
I do forget.
Betideth here in absence of thy friend;
In the divorce his contrary proceedings
count's serving-man than ever she bestowed upon me;
How fine my master is! I am afraid
If you will now unite in your complaints,
Among the buzzing pleased multitude;
Why, what's the matter?
Hangs upon mine eyes: let me rest.
Well. I will do it, though I take thee in the
Not for the worth that hangs upon our quarrel.
Your sad tires in a mile-a.
The least of you shall share his part thereof.
Lo, citizens, he says he is content:
lest he knock that about yours.
Never hung poison on a fouler toad.
Enter KING RICHARD III, marching, with drums and trumpets
He thinks me now incapable; confederates--
were endowed with all that Adam bad left him before
The bloody parliament shall this be call'd,
A dram of poison, such soon-speeding gear
daylight! an 'twere dark, you'ld close sooner.
And keep the Frenchmen in allegiance.
For nothing had begot my something grief;
With us to watch the minutes of this night;
Now will I write letters to Angelo,--
Nor can imagination form a shape,
And beat our watch, and rob our passengers;
He dreams: I know they are in Rome together,
There is no cause: when you shall know your mistress
Exit JULIA
Youngling, learn thou to make some meaner choice:
And feed upon the shadow of perfection
But here comes Thurio: now must we to her window,
than a fellow, look you now, of no merits, he is
Welcome home, Grumio!
He plays false, father.
Nature's wit.
The fourth son; York claims it from the third.
Alarum. Enter DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
Thy pains not used must by thyself be paid:
Where is your son?
on his shoulders, unless he pay me tribute; there
Unshout the noise that banish'd Marcius,
I fear you not.
Sola, sola!
Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
Speak gentle words and humbly bend thy knee,
I am not bound to please thee with my answers.
Why, then, your other senses grow imperfect
How now, my hearts! did you never see the picture
I'll hunt with him; and let them be received,
And much offence too. Touching this vision here,
At our enlargement what are thy due fees?
I am the son of Henry the Fifth,
And let not hemp his wind-pipe suffocate:
Thy nature did commence in sufferance, time
Which both thy duty owes and our power claims;
carried away all that was in the king's tent;
Which entertain'd, limbs are his instruments,
SCENE IV. Orleans.
SCENE II. A room in LEONATO'S house
Of the dank morning? What, is Brutus sick,
Though fools at home condemn 'em.
Lychorida, her nurse, she takes,
That lift your vassal hands against my head
Give me breath.
A phoenix that shall make all France afeard.
Gentle, and low, an excellent thing in woman.
Like a bold flood o'er-bear. O, come, go in,
And others, when the bagpipe sings i' the nose,
To the mines! tell you the duke, it is not so good
Had I been any god of power, I would
And thou art flying to a fresher clime:
Are they good?
Hillo, ho, ho, boy! come, bird, come.
No doubt he's noble;
From whence 'tis nourish'd: the fire i' the flint
More than prince of cats, I can tell you. O, he is
Wherefore? wherefore?
look some linen for your head.
Well, I hope it be not so.
is good for your green wound and your ploody coxcomb.
Then in my pocket; which directed him
SONG.
rascal hath removed my horse, and tied him I know
unfaithful: therefore beware my censure and keep
Ensear thy fertile and conceptious womb,
I tell you true: best you safed the bringer
well. Those healths will make thee and thy state
To tell it o'er: go to; well said, well said.
If I were covetous, ambitious or perverse,
When Caesar's wife shall meet with better dreams.'
Yes, my lord, you see them perspectively, the cities
Born so, master.
Ours of true zeal and deep integrity.
Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
Offers to kill her
Torment me for my love's forgetfulness!
I,--
Brief sounds determine of my weal or woe.
from lenders' books, and defy the foul fiend.
A caudle, ho!
Study me how to please the eye indeed
In, in, in, in!
Call it so.
knowest, winter tames man, woman and beast; for it
To one whom they had punish'd.
I'll not fail, if I live.
To be by oath enjoin'd to this. Farewell!
Where be these enemies? Capulet! Montague!
And from the common'st creature pluck a glove,
Fire and brimstone!
No; it is false, if it is a pick-purse.
How now! How a dozen of virginities?
The winds of March with beauty; violets dim,
Exeunt
Revolving this will teach thee how to curse.
This is a thing
From off my hands, here in the view of men
Out, damned spot! out, I say!--One: two: why,
Whose hours the peasant best advantages.
Enter DEMETRIUS and HELENA, running
With his face backward. In humane gentleness,
Either of you to be the other's end.
And neither man nor master would take aught
What?
I am so lated in the world, that I
Excellent well; you are a fishmonger.
When the most mighty gods by tokens send
Herald, away; and throughout every town
These broken limbs again into one body;
My life were better ended by their hate,
Beyond the river Sala, in the year
Truly, and to cast away honesty upon a foul slut
Turn, hell-hound, turn!
Dispatch it presently; the hour draws on
Of that integrity which should become't,
Exit
Acknowledge thee their patron; and come freely
bed of Ware in England, set 'em down: go, about it.
Then lead the way, good father; and heavens so shine,
Why, are ye mad? or know ye not, in Rome
Virtue is beauty, but the beauteous evil
But to the sport abroad: are you bound thither?
What need she, when she hath made you write to
To let you know of it.
Imagination of some great exploit
SCENE I. A public place.
Dies
Hath made us by-words to our enemies.
Yet seek my father's love; still seek it, sir:
'Tis not sleepy business;
Servant in arms to Harry King of England;
On the blest lovers.
Tremble at patience. You, my lord, best know,
To consolate thine ear. Come, night; end, day!
To one that would do thus. I am half through;
Had I a sister were a grace, or a daughter a goddess,
shall rob those men that we have already waylaid:
of Irish wolves against the moon.
He hath been search'd among the dead and living,
Buz in the people's ears, there nought hath pass'd,
Now, by Saint George, I am too young for you.
By their increase, now knows not which is which:
The fairest hand I ever touch'd! O beauty,
Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister,
Give me some wine, and let me speak a little.
Where he shall answer, by a lawful form,
Katharina, that cap of yours becomes you not:
I ne'er saw this before.
She is as forward of her breeding as
With what his valour did enrich his wit,
Himself best knows: but strangely-visited people,
notwithstanding, Master Fenton, I'll be sworn on a
Figured quite o'er with burning meteors.
Anon, anon, sir.
Never so weary, never so in woe,
That thus affect'st a sheep-hook! Thou old traitor,
She's my good lady, and will conceive, I hope,
Well, I will visit her: tell her so; and bid her
I'll have no bigger: this doth fit the time,
And for the day confined to fast in fires,
Pray God we may make haste, and come too late!
For I have heard my grandsire say full oft,
For in Baptista's keep my treasure is:
Go on before; I shall inquire you forth:
Have said and writ so, but your writing now
Let it flow this way, my good lord.
While she chats him: the kitchen malkin pins
'Tis a good constraint of fortune it belches upon us.
I would I had any drum of the enemy's: I would swear
A substitute shines brightly as a king
Thou kill'st me in his life; giving him breath,
Than she which by her death our Caesar tells
Did not the heavenly rhetoric of thine eye,
Which thus she hath prevented.
Will come to know his destiny:
Whose proof, nor yells of mothers, maids, nor babes,
slubber the gloss of your new fortunes with this
Ay, madam, well; for I was bred and born
But to have divinity preached there! did you ever
knocking out his brains.
like myself in this, let him be whipped that first
Night hath been too brief.
Re-enter SNOUT
Pardon me, princely Henry, and the rest
Come, mistress Kate, I'll bear you company.
Who were those went by?
And many a civil monster.
Had made his course to illume that part of heaven
Above the felon or what trespass else.
Oh! Oh! Oh!
three and twenty. Go thy way, Troilus, go thy way!
beseech your society.
Half of the number that King Priam had,
She hath abated me of half my train;
As air, as water, wind, or sandy earth,
O hateful error, melancholy's child,
And bids thee christen it with thy dagger's point.
And what would you have me to do? 'Tis too late to
Why, then you left me--O, the gods forbid!--
The cygnet's down is harsh and spirit of sense
By wasting ruin of the cruel foe.
That you might well enjoy her.
Be ruled by him.
And all the devils are here.'
Exeunt
I see no reason, if I wear this rose,
His agile arm beats down their fatal points,
To touch Calpurnia; for our elders say,
je m'estime heureux que je suis tombe entre les
Indeed, la, without an oath, I'll make an end on't:
So holy and so perfect is my love,
standing-tuck,--
Consider of it.'
For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
Toadstool, learn me the proclamation.
What is your will that I shall do with this?
A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
Yea, forsooth, an your mistership be emperial.
Chide me, dear stone, that I may say indeed
God bless thee; and put meekness in thy mind,
Now in the stirring passage of the day,
Till noon! till night, my lord; and all night too.
Than gain which darkens him.
What is love? 'tis not hereafter;
My shroud of white, stuck all with yew,
But 'be thou true,' say I, to fashion in
And die as I would do.
And, which is more, she is not so divine,
Will you not, my lord?
You may as well go stand upon the beach
Thy rankest fault; all of them; and require
He draws Mark Antony out of the way.
Had challenged pity of them. Was this a face
Enter, below, MARK ANTONY, borne by the Guard
Poland winter: if she lives till doomsday,
Would I could answer
The scourge of greatness to be used on it;
which rolls, and rolls, and rolls: in good truth,
If imputation and strong circumstances,
'Doubt thou the stars are fire;
Come on; obey:
A kind overflow of kindness: there are no faces
When you should bring the plaster.
O, ho, monster! we know what belongs to a frippery.
As his alliance will confirm our peace
Flourish
king himself.
I'faith, i'faith; and both in a tune, like two
[Aside to MISTRESS QUICKLY]  'Tis a great charge to
To shed obsequious tears upon this trunk.
Do: I'll take the sacrament on't, how and which way you will.
And one that is as slanderous as Satan?
Lieutenant to the warlike Moor Othello,
Embrace thy brother there; rejoice with him.
Our trusty friend, unless I be deceived.
I would your duty were as foolish too:
A Gallian girl at home; he furnaces
For that which now torments me to rehearse:
Now climbeth Tamora Olympus' top,
That last is true; the sweeter rest was mine.
doublet, four through the hose; my buckler cut
And fall upon the ground, as I do now,
Salisbury, and Warwick;
SCENE I. The same.
Base Phrygian Turk!
For this night's watching.
Good Brabantio,
That will not be deep-search'd with saucy looks:
In haste, post-haste, are come to join with you:
And, with my best endeavours in your absence,
For her relapse is mortal. Come, come;
Well said, Hal! to it Hal! Nay, you shall find no
As boldness from my bosom, let 't not be doubted
That now she is become as black as I.
He supp'd at my house; but I therefore shake not.
I would not shave't to-day.
Lo, as the bark, that hath discharged her fraught,
She being none of your flesh and blood, your flesh
'Swounds, I should take it: for it cannot be
Whose heads stood in their breasts? which now we find
I cannot rightly say. But since King Pericles,
To give me hearing.
We have always truly served you, and beseech you
DON
Must answer for your raising? I know her well:
You call me misbeliever, cut-throat dog,
Like all mankind, show me an iron heart?
Then by your side no bed-room me deny;
SCENE VII. Near Actium. MARK ANTONY's camp.
Command these fretting waters from your eyes
But then Aufidius was with in my view,
And let the labouring bark climb hills of seas
Exeunt
O, banish me, my lord, but kill me not!
What said she? nothing?
in apprehension how like a god! the beauty of the
yet.
Not out of your apparel, and yet out of your suit.
That tyrannous heart can think? To one of your receiving
Good morrow, little prince.
Speak like a subject, proud ambitious York!
I got possession of Julietta's bed:
His hand to wield a sceptre, and himself
And the red glow of scorn and proud disdain,
That capability and god-like reason
In this last tempest. I perceive these lords
not impossible to me, if it appear not inconvenient
Kinsman to grim and comfortless despair,
Bate, I beseech you, widow Dido.
The Goths have gather'd head; and with a power
She, whom the spital-house and ulcerous sores
Ha! who calls?
By this light, a most perfidious and drunken
But who comes in such haste in riding-robes?
But yet you look not well upon him; for whosoever you
Exit
Peruse this letter! Nothing almost sees miracles
SCENE I. Before LEONATO'S house.
For your broken shin.
Say, gentle princess, would you not suppose
There's not a nobler man in Rome than Antony.
Drums afar off
I'll not believe't.
Enter LYSANDER and HELENA
To-night I take my leave. This naughty man
But they must blab--
this youth, I blame ye not:
To hear such flattery now, and in my presence;
As I intend to thrive in this new world,
Varro's
O, here I lift this one hand up to heaven,
Macbeth does murder sleep', the innocent sleep,
I were malicious else.
And how his audit stands who knows save heaven?
Pull off my boots: harder, harder: so.
at the next turning of all, on your left; marry, at
Seals of love, but sealed in vain, sealed in vain.
As if he were the right Vincentio
twenty years, and yet I am bewitched with the
If this be so, the gods do mean to strike me
To none of these, except it be the last;
Let's take the instant by the forward top;
On thy too ready hearing? Disloyal! No:
SCENE II. A plain in Warwickshire.
commission and main power, took 'em from me; with
Shall I do that which all the Parthian darts,
O, are you come, Iago? you have done well,
That thou mightst think upon these by the seal,
Use careful watch, choose trusty sentinels.
By gentlemen at hand.
My heart is in the coffin there with Caesar,
an you be a cursing hypocrite once, you must be looked to.
Now, ye familiar spirits, that are cull'd
In second husband let me be accurst!
after. Nothing but lechery! all incontinent varlets!
word. Well, set thee down, sorrow! for so they say
God save your majesty! my royal cousin, teach you
Have I made shake and by the spurs pluck'd up
We are but men; and what so many may do,
with us to the king.
Revenge yourselves alone on Cassius,
Death to thyself but to thy lewd-tongued wife,
Why, see you not?
The gods rebuke me, but it is tidings
When, by and by, the din of war gan pierce
Come, trusty sword;
As in a Romish stew and to expound
Will give you satisfaction, you may have't.
Yon island carrions, desperate of their bones,
Come, I will make you way for these your letters;
As in offence.
Ah, my sour husband, my hard-hearted lord,
I have a truant been to chivalry;
And twenty caged nightingales do sing:
I thank thee, Meg; these words content me much.
Obeying with my wind when I do blow,
riding wagers,
And so had I; but yet, for fashion sake, I thank you
It will be rain to-night.
O good but most unwise patricians! why,
Are but as pictures: 'tis the eye of childhood
Honest, my lord!
Sir, my life is yours;
Or keeping what is sworn, you will prove fools.
something of that jealous complexion.
Unto the French the dreadful judgement-day
Despised in nativity,
If the matter were good, my lord, I durst swear
Thus do go about, about:
Please you, sir,
daughter, she is, by this, Doctor Caius' wife.
But these are all lies: men have died from time to
But angry, wrathful, and inclined to blood,
once to a thing, and I was never mine own man
These deeds must not be thought
No marvel, an it like your majesty,
And you, Achilles, let these threats alone,
Exeunt
DON
According to his virtue let us use him,
Thus ready for the way of life or death,
And these does she apply for warnings, and portents,
To die with lengthen'd shame.
If thou didst know me, thou wouldest talk with me.
It is, such crimson tempest should bedrench
Aside
But I shall grieve you to report the rest.
Enter PROTEUS and JULIA
Madam, please you peruse this letter.--
Yes, sir; as well as you dare patronage
A proverb never stale in thrifty mind.
the knaves, you need not to fear the bawds.
We had a kind of light what would ensue:
repentance and, with his bad legs, falls into the
Right.
Did put the yoke upon 's; which to shake off
And safely brought to Dover; where inshipp'd
Which can pursue the offender. How dost, my lord?
Unless thou tell me how I may prevent it:
Be not dismay'd, fair lady; nor misconstrue
Their talk at table, and their thanks at end;
He hath a garden circummured with brick,
The ne'er-yet-beaten horse of Parthia
In shape no bigger than an agate-stone
I thank him.
cheer.' So a' cried out 'God, God, God!' three or
This night forestall him of the coming day!
Quiet yourselves, I pray, and be at peace.
To try conclusions, in the basket creep,
was no less than his. If then that friend demand
Where be my horses? speak well of them, varletto.
From sleeping Hermia? I'll believe as soon
Needs must you lay your heart at his dispose,
That horse and sail and high expense
riot; take your vizaments in that.
That she beloved knows nought that knows not this:
Your grant, or your denial, shall be mine:
With many children by you: if, in the course
But such another man!
And I seeing this came thence for very shame;
Ten and eleven?
So would I ha' done, by yonder sun,
princess of England, Elizabeth!
Apparent to my heart.
Motion! Well; speak on. Where were you born?
And stop this gap of breath with fulsome dust
[Aside]  I do not like her. She doth think she has
Yet be cheerful, knight: thou shalt eat a posset
SCENE I. Pentapolis. An open place by the sea-side.
Have you perused the letters from the pope,
When priests are more in word than matter;
But to make open proclamation:
with bitter words. Why look you so upon me?
He holds her by the hand, silent
pains to work her to your manage. Come, we will
Ay, my lord, and of calf-skins too.
This orient pearl. His speech sticks in my heart.
Be brief, lest that be process of thy kindness
Eternity was in our lips and eyes,
Why, Romeo, art thou mad?
lad, how is that answered?
more willingly part withal: except my life, except
It strains me past the compass of my wits:
Ay, be-gar; and de maid is love-a me: my nursh-a
Lie further off; in human modesty,
Exit Second Servant
Hold amity? 'Tis hard; almost impossible.
But till 'twere known!
Let him be Caesar.
Let them set on at once; for I perceive
Passion as they, be kindlier moved than thou art?
Which should bedeck thy shape, thy love, thy wit:
Is not my sorrow deep, having no bottom?
When with your blood you daily paint her thus.
Razeth your cities and subverts your towns
Exeunt ORLANDO and ADAM
O, yet I do repent me of my fury,
Enter another Gentleman
I would she had bestowed this dotage on me: I would
May hang no longer on me: throw my heart
Exit, with his soldiers
Who ever but his approbation added,
Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS, and ALEXAS
Of woeful ages long ago betid;
Writing their own reproach, to whose soft seizure
And other books, good ones, I warrant ye.
Guns heard
If with too credent ear you list his songs,
The readiest way to make the wench amends
SCENE IV. A room in Capulet's house.
As rain to water, or devil to his dam.
She is the weeping welkin, I the earth:
pillage and robbery. Now, if these men have
such colours.
Sends you his princely commendations,
However faulty, yet should find respect
O, 'tis a foul thing when a cur cannot keep himself
And found at sea again! O Helicanus,
The vantage of his anger.
When he shall split thy very heart with sorrow,
'Twixt amorous and villanous. Being thus quench'd
O, such another sleep, that I might see
Fair princess, you have lost much good sport.
A blank, my lord. She never told her love,
Ho, gentlemen! my lord calls.
To seek the beauteous eye of heaven to garnish,
I would not see't.
To pay the petty debt twenty times over:
What! was it you that would be England's king?
So much for Nestor.
Reads
Beshrew me, but his passion moves me so
will; for good things should be praised.
be hangers till then. But, on: six Barbary horses
And made a preachment of your high descent?
When they pass back from the christening.
My Lord, I have consider'd in my mind
Soundly, my lord.
With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino
His part o' the isle: then does he say, he lent me
That he spake to thee?
Gentle Mercutio, put thy rapier up.
But if thy flight lay toward the raging sea,
which, peradventure not marked or not laughed at,
Accuse him home and home. For my poor self,
And something over to remember me by:
Like labour with the rest, where the other instruments
One of these days; and then you'ld wanton with us,
Nay, we must longer kneel: I am a suitor.
And from my soul too;
A title to Phoebe, to Luna, to the moon.
With candle-wasters; bring him yet to me,
No, mighty King of France: now Margaret
Help me into some house, Benvolio,
Sings
To tell my story.
If foul desire had not conducted you?
And, captain, you must needs be friends with him.
Where great additions swell's, and virtue none,
Where is the enemy? are you lords o' the field?
I know not, gentlemen, what you intend,
is the way: and there dwells one Mistress Quickly,
On either side I come to spend my breath;
That they may fairly note this act of mine!
done! Answer, clerk.
The stroke of death is as a lover's pinch,
And will maintain what thou hast said is false
Enter ANGELO with the chain
Exeunt
Here is a coil with protestation!
To fall in love with what she fear'd to look on!
You fur your gloves with reason. Here are
Ha! Canterbury?
Kills LAVINIA
Forced me to seek delays for them and me.
Oppose himself against a troop of kerns,
And bear't before him: thereby shall we shadow
Show me which way.
yet to do; and here, where you are, they are coming
I know not if the day be ours or no;
I am thy grandam, Richard; call me so.
And entertain some score or two of tailors,
As they would hang them on the horns o' the moon,
Gives way to in repose!
Why do you show me this? A fourth! Start, eyes!
Because they died in honour's lofty bed.
And never false. Soft, ho! what trunk is here
The strong necessity of time commands
back thy business there: whereupon I command thee to
Why, why is this?
I am the second son of old Sir Rowland,
Why will he not upon our fair request
A strumpet's boldness, a divulged shame
A wightly wanton with a velvet brow,
But do not go with it.
In fearful sense.
The better arm you to the sudden time,
He shall, sir, an't please him. There's a letter for
Yet, Derby, notwithstanding she's your wife,
What stratagems, how fell, how butcherly,
Enter ROMEO and JULIET above, at the window
Yet call the ambassador; and, as you please,
Rend off thy silver hair, thy other hand
Of a full-charged confederacy, and give thanks
The special watchmen of our English weal,
The king has done you wrong: but, hush, 'tis so.
He sups to-night with a harlotry, and thither will I
But, thus much, they are foul ones.
That they take place, when virtue's steely bones
I knew him, and I know him; so I leave him
Whose repetition will be dogg'd with curses;
On like conditions, will have counter-seal'd.
These nails should rend that beauty from my cheeks.
your brother how well I counterfeited. Heigh-ho!
mine; for it is plain pocketing up of wrongs. I
March: flourish. Enter KING EDWARD IV, GLOUCESTER, and soldiers
What could the belly answer?
The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
That's meat and drink to me, now. I have seen
How deeply you at once do touch me! Imogen,
But sea-room, an the brine and cloudy billow kiss
Reads
Your own handwriting would tell you what I think.
I alone became their prisoner. They have dealt with
fiend. 'Budge not,' says my conscience.
Wherefore she does, and swears she'll never stint,
Witness this army of such mass and charge
Which he did thrice refuse: was this ambition?
Singing
Now is the mural down between the two neighbours.
To meet your father and the Scottish power,
It was my hint to speak,--such was the process;
And manage it against despairing thoughts.
a copper nose.
Believe 't, my lord and I have made an end;
Ah, boy, if any life be left in thee,
That therefore only are reputed wise
Come forth.
There's toys abroad: anon I'll tell thee more.
Now, forward with your tale. Prithee, stand farther
Enter Murderers
My other self, my counsel's consistory,
Would imitate, and sail upon the land,
the ear of caelo, the sky, the welkin, the heaven;
There's gold for thee.
Will I apply that treats of happiness
Might in the ground be closed up in rest!
Even in these honest mean habiliments:
Think death no hazard in this enterprise.
That e'er I put between your holy looks
Enter FLUELLEN and GOWER
But not deliver'd. O, hear me breathe my life
Take off his miseries.
Sometimes you would call out for Cicely Hacket.
Reason becomes the marshal to my will
Know you of this taxation?
Fie! charity, for shame! speak not in spite,
her belly already: tis yours.
Sits safe and still without him.
Is now dishonoured by this new marriage.
Who's there? what's the matter? will you beat
Welcome; fall to: I will not trouble you
Soldiers, sir.
If thou wert near a lewd interpreter!
And never ask'd for restitution.
Exeunt
The sorrow that I have, by right is yours,
By and by, I come:--
And on the cause and question now in hand
I consanguineous? am I not of her blood?
[Sings]
Shall keep us both the safer: where we are,
For, meeting her of late behind the wood,
When it is lighted, come and call me here.
Was not my lord
'Tis said the stout Parisians do revolt
Like foggy south puffing with wind and rain?
with hope, till the wicked fire of lust have melted
Shall I? O rare! By the Lord, I'll be a brave judge.
My innocent life against an emperor.
That through the window-bars bore at men's eyes,
'Tis here!
Enter a Sheriff
Transparent heretics, be burnt for liars!
Brother, you have a vice of mercy in you,
Renew, renew! The fierce Polydamas
My lord, you do discomfort all the host!
That paragons description and wild fame;
Ay, that you shall.
I thank you, madam. Give welcome to my friend.
Come, let us to the banquet.
[Aside]  But methinks he should stand in fear of
Here comes his majesty.
My lords, look where the sturdy rebel sits,
he hath not yet made wanton the night with her; and
tragedy: and so it is, truly; and very notably
thy services by leaving me now: the need I have of
Something to save thy life.
For Cassius is aweary of the world;
So, slave; hence!
She did, my lord, when Valentine was here.
limits of order.
But clay and clay differs in dignity,
With foreheads villanous low.
knight with my taber.
Which is the best to furnish me to-morrow.
Good faith, a little one; not past a pint, as I am
And charity chased hence by rancour's hand;
Loved none in the world so well as Lucentio.
Nor boots it me to say I honour him.
Nor will you not tell me who you are?
That he hath not.
Curse, miscreant, when thou comest to the stake.
how infinite in faculty! in form and moving how
SCENE I. Athens. The palace of THESEUS.
Behold, these are the tribunes of the people,
And break it with a deep-divorcing vow?
Enter another Gentleman
Will you, with those infirmities she owes,
Bestride my threshold. Why, thou Mars! I tell thee,
He beckons with his hand and smiles on me.
to convince the honour of my mistress, if, in the
We'll make foul weather with despised tears;
ANTIPHOLUS
For vainer hours and tutors not so careful.
Sweet, except not any;
By force took Dromio and my son from them
Hath now entrapp'd the noble-minded Talbot:
His health was never better worth than now.
here: pray you, is he married to Cleopatra?
Thou ask'st me such a question. Have I not been
That ride upon the violent speed of fire,
This Tunis, sir, was Carthage.
Happy, in that we are not over-happy;
Truly, sir, in my poor opinion, they will to't then.
SCENE I. Before the Tower.
I follow him to serve my turn upon him:
How oft when men are at the point of death
Exeunt
Thus in plain terms: your father hath consented
Richard the second here was hack'd to death;
Why sigh you so profoundly? where's my lord? gone!
And yet not so; since, I am sure, my love's
For, hark you, Tybalt being slain so late,
Sir, as concerning some entertainment of time, some
O, one too much by thee! Why had I one?
To follow me and praise my eyes and face?
Ay. You have some stain of soldier in you: let me
And let him ne'er see joy that breaks that oath!
For certain she is dead, and by strange manner.
Since, Jupiter, our son is good,
Unless for that he comes to be your liege,
As far as to the sepulchre of Christ,
Alas, poor man!
Erroneous, mutinous and unnatural,
Whose arms gave shelter to the princely eagle,
renown made it not stir, was pleased to let him seek
And hope to joy is little less in joy
Nor when she purposes return. Beseech your highness,
So please your lordship to accept our duty.
Doll Tearsheet she by name, and her espouse:
Than that of thought. Suppose that you have seen
And seek their ruin that usurp'd our right?
Well.
and, as thou sayest, charged my brother, on his
him that made the tailor, not be fit too? the
Brave son, derived from honourable loins!
Nay, come, again.
That hast no less deserved, nor must be known
But who comes here? the new-deliver'd Hastings?
SCENE V. Capulet's orchard.
It doth appear you are a worthy judge;
'It came to pass, as most like it was,'--
I saw Othello's visage in his mind,
As I can say nay to thee for myself,
And will, no doubt, with reasons answer you.
To those have shut him up; which failing,
dinner of friends.
here,--this, who, like a block, hath denied my
Beside that of the jewel house, is made master
degree of my betters; and yet I will not compare
Away, away! for he is coming hither.
Why, he hacked it with his dagger, and said he would
Hath won the greatest favour of the commons,
Exeunt
O dear account! my life is my foe's debt.
These worms for loving, that art most in love?
The Duke of York commends him to your majesty.
Or any token of thine honour else,
Thy hand upon that match.
Signifies that from you great Rome shall suck
he hath killed, otherwise he had suffered for't.
The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England;
And I have found Demetrius like a jewel,
the more wrong,' quoth I; ''twas I did the thing you
A heart of wreak in thee, that wilt revenge
I can no other answer make but thanks,
Not lack your company.
Our pastimes done, possess a golden slumber;
My lord, we must entreat the time alone.
The County Paris hath set up his rest,
Due but to one and crowned with one crest.
Have satisfied the king for his divorce,
He jests at scars that never felt a wound.
I'll be as good as my word: he will bear you easily
No; yet time serves wherein you may redeem
As iron to adamant, as earth to the centre,
You shall not need to fear me.
Re-enter MACDUFF, with MACBETH's head
Here's the lord of the soil come to seize me for a
your old virginity, is like one of our French
That not a tear can fall for Rutland's death?
likeness, he must appear naked and blind. Can you
O, God help me! God help me! how long have you
The ooze, to show what coast thy sluggish crare
Of mortal breathing: seize it, if thou darest.
this! Why, my lord of York commends the plot and the
Let that suffice. I have trusted thee, Camillo,
Mocks married men; for thus sings he, 	Cuckoo;
It is not so; thou hast misspoke, misheard:
And thou shalt see how apt it is to learn
And heaven's artillery thunder in the skies?
And both like serpents are, who though they feed
Which I do well; for I am sure the emperor
the complaints I have heard of you I do not all
The swiftest harts have posted you by land;
Which by a vision sent to her from heaven
Haply the seas and countries different
Mort Dieu!
Exeunt
Setting endeavour in continual motion;
Drums; flourish and colours. Enter KING RICHARD II, the BISHOP OF CARLISLE, DUKE OF AUMERLE, and Soldiers
My lord?
Exeunt
But, in my mind, that were no policy:
You are, you are--O royal Pericles!
Comes all the praises that I now bestow,
To make my heart her vassal.
Here, master: what cheer?
Is not this suit of mine, that thou declare
Flourish, and shout within, 'Make way there: Octavius Caesar!'
It shall become thee well to act my woes;
Exeunt LUCIUS, QUINTUS, MARTIUS, and MUTIUS, with ALARBUS
Then when ourselves we see in ladies' eyes,
To swear him in the justice of his cause.
What thou hast done thy master Caesar knows,
Enter BERTRAM, LAFEU, and PAROLLES
And mine, fair lady Bona, joins with yours.
How happily he lives, how well beloved
Would for Carnarvonshire, although there long'd
Wherein have I so deserved of you,
now. I shall crave your forbearance a little: may
That Marcius shall be consul:
I, madam?
with her, truly it were an ill thing to be offered
Tucket. Enter MONTJOY
Methought he was a brother to your daughter:
I do, thou most usurping proditor,
That she would soon be here.
A Grecian and his sword, if he do set
Still so cruel?
Caius Marcius was
When she, poor hen, fond of no second brood,
On their abatement: that's not my desire:
Not for delights; times to repair our nature
You would be, sweet madam, if your miseries were in
of all our cavaliers, and make our swearers priests.
Thine intellect? hath he been in thy heart?
Exit
Peasant, avaunt! You have suborn'd this man,
And with a low submissive reverence
What is your crest? a coxcomb?
Thy name?
Exeunt
SCENE II. London. The palace.
ACT V
sign of dolour to another, she did, with an 'Alas,'
On pain to be found false and recreant,
A twelvemonth longer, let me entreat you to
What will you do with 't, that you have been
were of my mind,--
And we did think it writ down in our duty
I know thee well, though never seen before.
We'll know all our fortunes.
Are counsellors to fear. What soldiers, whey-face?
Thy buried fear: herein all breathless lies
No, Corin, being old, thou canst not guess,
If they be senators: and they are no less,
If we recover that, we are sure enough.
Anointed, I implore so much expense of thy royal
Spare none but such as go in clouted shoon;
QUEEN and Ladies retire
[Aside]  I would I knew not why it should be slow'd.
To what end? He would make but a sport of it and
Somerset, Somerset, for Lancaster!
Tell her I am arrested in the street
And never trouble Peter for the matter.
bear it for a difference between himself and his
Another of these students at that time
So, now I have mine own again, be gone,
Never's my day, and then a kiss of you.
Faith, I do: her father bequeathed her to me; and
With these ill tidings.
And lay aside my high blood's royalty,
Why, I can buy me twenty at any market.
But men may construe things after their fashion,
Therefore, my loving lords, our pleasure is
But with his last attempt he wiped it out;
Omitting Suffolk's exile, my soul's treasure?
humours since the old days of goodman Adam to the
Protect mine innocence, or I fall into
Nor by what wonder you do hit of mine,--
Get thee to a nunnery: why wouldst thou be a
This deed unshapes me quite, makes me unpregnant
Than in a nuncio's of more grave aspect.
As I do live by food, I met a fool
Threaten the threatener and outface the brow
Exit
And that thy summer bred us no increase,
Shall blow each dust, each straw, each little rub,
What are you sewing here? A fine spot, in good
Ah, Warwick! Montague hath breathed his last;
With rival-hating envy, set on you
Than they are to their virtues; which is nothing.
And talking of the Alps and Apennines,
Go tell their general we attend him here,
If opportunity and humblest suit
Will change to virtue and to worthiness.
Enter a Messenger
Ever shall in safety rest.
I tell thee she is: and therefore make her grave
This rudeness is a sauce to his good wit,
Wouldst thou then counsel me to fall in love?
Exeunt DUKE VINCENTIO and Provost
Exeunt ROSALINE and KATHARINE
Nor dignifies an impure thought with breath;
The country cocks do crow, the clocks do toll,
Which when you part from, lose, or give away,
He is a god, and knows
To engross up glorious deeds on my behalf;
I shall no more to sea, to sea,
Nor shines the silver moon one half so bright
flap for a sore eye, thou tassel of a prodigal's
Golden opinions from all sorts of people,
Fill me some wine.
For our first merriment hath made thee jealous.
For putting on so new a fashion'd robe.
What think you of this fool, Malvolio? doth he not mend?
I beseech you, let me answer to the particular of
The Countess Richmond, good my Lord of Derby.
I give, my cause who best can justify.
I see, lady, the gentleman is not in your books.
Thy pupil long? Hast thou not learn'd me how
favouring the first complaint; hasty and tinder-like
left a purse alive in the whole army.
'nointed over with honey, set on the head of a
imagine me too unhurtful an opposite. But indeed I
Climbing my walls in spite of me the owner,
The royal banner, and all quality,
Am starved for meat, giddy for lack of sleep,
I tell you all her wealth.
Shall rust upon my weapon, till thy blood,
Now she sharpens: well said, whetstone!
The fortress of it; for better might we
And thought thee happy when I shook my head?
born to do me shame.
promise ye, I fear you. I was always plain with
I must be round with him, now he comes from hunting.
Ay, sir, you shall find me reasonable; if it be so,
I swear to do this, though a present death
Here, boy, to Pallas: here, to Mercury:
time, but also how thou art accompanied: for though
Amen!
If for the last, say ay, and to it, lords.
together is, abandon the society of this female, or,
To think what follows.
About thy thoughts and counsels of thy heart!
They call him Doricles; and boasts himself
Hear the crier.
Yea, man and birds are fain of climbing high.
My lord, that ne'er before invited eyes,
The queen is valued thirty thousand strong,
She bears a duke's revenues on her back,
to this paltry knight.
are almost set in thy head.
KING HENRY VI swoons
Our doubtful hope, our convoy and our bark.
What, Patch-breech, I say!
To make it gracious. For my private part,
They'll pardon it.--Say you, sir?
Enter OLIVER
But to my charge. The king hath sent to know
Not so, my lord; it is not so, I swear;
for you! here's no vanity! I am as hot as moulten
Varro's
valiant, I honour him: but, as he was ambitious, I
Should be as holy as severe;
Set limb to limb, and thou art far the lesser;
Judicious punishment! 'twas this flesh begot
Farewell, old Gaunt: thy sometimes brother's wife
To RICHMOND
Of heavy Pericles; think this his bark:
Come, come,
lady a merited benefit; redeem your brother from
this advantage, first, that your stay with him may
Prithee, no more.
Of their disguising and pretended flight;
Fie, now you run this humour out of breath,
I do not like this fooling.
Preservers of my throne. Woe is my heart
As I have heard my father speak himself,
They were all struck for thee! naught that I am,
ACT IV
So, so, so, so: they laugh that win.
Exeunt Hostess, FRANCIS, and BARDOLPH
Till of this flat a mountain you have made,
They'll say 'tis naught: others, to hear the city
should freelier rejoice in that absence wherein he
any man to answer it that breaks his band; one that
Every good servant does not all commands:
Death, having prey'd upon the outward parts,
us, here is that gold I have: I'll make it as much
Where is he, hear you?
Happily you may catch her in the sea;
His hands abroad display'd, as one that grasp'd
How I have govern'd our determined jest?
Please you, my lord, that honourable
You know your own degrees; sit down: at first
Hysterica passio, down, thou climbing sorrow,
Call him in.
It pleaseth me so well, that I will see you wed;
Of any thing the image tell me that
The expectancy and rose of the fair state,
my errand;
Lest I, by marking of your rage, forget
It blots thy beauty as frosts do bite the meads,
No, on my life.
The sun is high, and we outwear the day.
As snow in harvest. Thou deceivest thyself:
And thus the native hue of resolution
Thou chid'st me oft for loving Rosaline.
By'r lady, he is a good musician.
Know then, I here forget all former griefs,
Committed by your person and your followers
And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more:
I am disgraced, impeach'd and baffled here,
If not, the end of life cancels all bands;
The immortal gods that hear you,--spare your oaths,
That thou, Iago, who hast had my purse
What incidency thou dost guess of harm
Still through the hawthorn blows the cold wind:
no legacy is so rich as honesty.
Is man no more than this? Consider him well. Thou
I thought King Henry had resembled thee
Enter ELBOW, and Officers with FROTH and POMPEY
To bless the bed of majesty again
As so defend thee heaven and thy valour!
And if you prove it, I'll repay it back
strange things from Rome; all tending to the good of
Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
Which holds but till thy news be uttered;
Before we reckon with your several loves,
It is too late: the life of all his blood
Talk not of standing. Publius, good cheer;
Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy,
Take from his heart, take from his brain,
She'll flay thy wolvish visage. Thou shalt find
Shake patiently my great affliction off:
May do, to express his love and friending to you,
Up to the ears. Come, we burn daylight, ho!
If I may have your daughter to my wife,
[Aside to DIOMEDES]  O, this is well; he rubs the
Makes me less gracious or thee more fortunate:
But since you are a gentle convertite,
For fear thou shouldst lose thy tongue.
Peace, ho!
Our expectation that it would be thus
Unsheathe your sword, good father; cry 'Saint George!'
And scarr'd the moon with splinters: here I clip
My lord, he's going to his mother's closet:
I cannot tell; but I had as lief take her dowry with
Canst not read?
Yea, even the slightest worship of his time,
Your speech is passion:
The mere effusion of thy proper loins,
I thank thee, good Tubal: good news, good news!
I drink the air before me, and return
His arms spread wider than a dragon's wings;
I prithee, let's be provided to show them
And brokes with all that can in such a suit
My lord, dispatch; read o'er these articles.
And peace established between these realms
Do not swear, and eat it.
A coin that bears the figure of an angel
And pluck it o'er your brows, muffle your face,
Peace, peace, Iras!
He hath out-villained villany so far, that the
Which were inshell'd when Marcius stood for Rome,
Rich tire about you, should at these early hours
Is jollity for apes and grief for boys.
like a kern of Ireland, your French hose off, and in
A wife of me, though there my hope be done.
That shall maintain what I have said is true,
Ourself, my lord protector and the rest
To shame the guise o' the world, I will begin
I see their knavery: this is to make an ass of me;
To make him even o'er the time he has lost.
All use of quittance.
Why, fare thee well: I will o'erlook thy paper.
Master, has my fellow Tranio stolen your clothes? Or
I will not live to be accounted Warwick.
thing about him. Good, then; if his face be the
He? alas, he is poor; he hath nothing.
[Aside]  Hortensio, say thou wilt see the tailor paid.
What! will you fly, and leave Lord Talbot?
I would I were, to be revenged on thee.
If I do, hang me in a bottle like a cat and shoot
All villains that do stand by thee are pure.
The third part, then, is drunk: would it were all,
Yet these fixed evils sit so fit in him,
I am resolved to bear a greater storm
Let it alone, thou fool; it is but trash.
Flourish
Holla, holla!
She'll find a white that shall her blackness fit.
And now do I bethink me, so it is,--
Foolery, sir, does walk about the orb like the sun,
Makes me afeard.
Good husband, let us every one go home,
Is not amiss when it is truly done,
Buried this sigh in wrinkle of a smile:
DON
At all times will you have my power alike?
And we will not, heaven's offer we refuse,
For thy great bounty, that not only givest
And fence not Athens! Matrons, turn incontinent!
And give him from me this most needful scroll.
Our contract celebrated.
shall find it a great charge: and to be up early
And 'scape detecting, I will pay the theft.
By seeing the worst, which late on hopes depended.
the streets; for, for the watch to babble and to
He never was so womanish; the cause
Sir, the gods
Therefore, good cousin, let not Harry know,
Lest unadvised you stain your swords with blood:
glosses, being rather new-dyed than stained with
without seeming so.
[Within]  If thou attempt it, it will cost thee dear:
For now they kill me with a living death.
We met, we woo'd and made exchange of vow,
Do you think I meant country matters?
Studied so long, sat in the council-house
Will purchase us a good opinion
Exeunt
Brimful of sorrow and dismay; but chiefly
Speak, gentle sister, who hath martyr'd thee?
Let what is meet be said it must be meet,
And fortune led you well: you have the captives
As have thy love? Why dost not speak to me?
Re-enter, from the barge, Lord, with MARINA, and a young Lady
Now, by my sceptre and my soul to boot,
But if black scandal or foul-faced reproach
Or have acquaintance with mine own desires,
Though thou the waters warp,
Of love?
That this distemper'd messenger of wet,
when you may.
A good riddance.
In this I'll be impartial; be you judge
That what's else rare is choked; and in that point
Much less to take occasion from their mouths
Exeunt
Who, Thersites?
O, ay, Curtis, ay: and therefore fire, fire; cast
And humbly thus, with halters on their necks,
His radiant root. Away! and, to be blest,
The stony entrance of this sepulchre?
Will do's commission throughly: and I think
Your ships are not well mann'd;
Give me your hand: this hand is moist, my lady.
But yet, you see how soon the day o'ercast.
or her 'budget?' the white will decipher her well
Lays his hand on his head
Enter a Servant
We are accounted poor citizens, the patricians good.
To feast upon whole thousands of the French.
There stays a husband to make you a wife:
you are o' the commission,
Which you are running here.
How covert matters may be best disclosed,
Hopeless and helpless doth AEgeon wend,
that you should leave me at the White Hart in
Exit
And anon, sir,
lips to open. You do love this maid?
I see a voice: now will I to the chink,
How these were they that made away his brother.
Or hedge aside from the direct forthright,
Bring him again: this Jack of Caesar's shall
But that he's well and will be shortly here.
What say you? Hence,
With ample and brim fulness of his force,
Loud alarum
Enter, from one side, AARON, DEMETRIUS, and  CHIRON; from the other side, Young LUCIUS, and an  Attendant, with a bundle of weapons, and verses writ upon them
Making, to take your imagination,
And peace, no war, befall thy parting soul!
Fall like amazing thunder on the casque
Go call him hither.
Therefore, when merchant-like I sell revenge,
You shall do small respect, show too bold malice
How doth the prince, and my young son of York?
And here he comes.
Simple of itself; I'll no pullet-sperm in my brewage.
This hand, fast wound about thy coal-black hair
Bring it after me.
And all-to topple: pure surprise and fear
[Awaking]  Help me, Lysander, help me! do thy best
My honoured lord!
I will not swear these are my hands: let's see;
Canst tell how an oyster makes his shell?
'Tis done already, and the messenger gone.
Sir, praise me not;
You are right courteous knights.
Dead?
And shall I stand, and thou sit in my throne?
Their pleasures here are past, so is their pain.
Was given me by one that had some power,
That when he speaks not like a citizen,
Than was that young and princely gentleman.
My evils conjured to remembrance and
They, that they cannot help: how shall they credit
How much low peasantry would then be glean'd
Let that one article rank with the rest;
It would be much vexation to your age.
Where the quick freshes are.
His purpose surfeiting, he sends a warrant
Must bear the same proportion; and not ever
What is this?
That shall you know hereafter.
My will is something sorted with his wish.
Such an exploit have I in hand, Ligarius,
This is a soldier's kiss: rebukeable
Are those my tents where I perceive the fire?
I can heat it, boy.
But I will find him when he lies asleep,
And have the dates in contempt.
morning. We must all to the wars, and thy place
I'll find about the making of the bed;
upon thee. Come, bring me to some private place:
much drink; sorry that you have paid too much, and
net.
Be thus upbraided, chid and rated at,
Who, almost dead for breath, had scarcely more
The saddest spectacle that e'er I view'd.
And let me wring your heart; for so I shall,
Trust nobody, for fear you be betray'd.
Thou hast cast away thyself, being like thyself;
Sighing like furnace, with a woeful ballad
Do thou thy master's bidding: when thou see'st him,
And twice by awkward wind from England's bank
'Tis not her glass, but you, that flatters her;
But thy unkindness shall his death draw out
not forgot upon the face of the earth, then am I a
the rector of the place.
He wants advice.
tish ill done; by my hand, tish ill done!
We should hold day with the Antipodes,
Well, thou hast called her to a reckoning many a
How now!
But keep a farm and carters.
To be commanded.
To Valentinus, Rowland, and to Crassus,
That noble minds keep ever with their likes;
In such a point of weight, so near mine honour,--
Rosaline; Livia; Signior Valentio and his cousin
For, my good liege, she is so idly king'd,
Content, i' faith: I'll seal to such a bond
your worship's pleasure I shall do with this wicked caitiff?
to sound Falstaff. If I find her honest, I lose not
This presence knows,
No more my king, for he dishonours me,
Hover through the fog and filthy air.
Ay, but the case is alter'd:
I never tasted Timon in my life,
Commend me to your niece.
There's other work in hand: I see a thing
The damned'st body to invest and cover
And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me:
Cry 'Caesar!' Speak; Caesar is turn'd to hear.
Letting 'I dare not' wait upon 'I would,'
As cherubins, all guilt: the madams too,
Look, whether he have not crown'd dead Cassius!
'Tis all the better;
Now counterfeit to swoon; why now fall down;
Some, of violated vows
Soldiers, have careful watch.
To laughter and contempt; that she may feel
In the great'st humbleness, and desired your highness
As low as to thy foot doth Cassius fall,
A most singular and choice epithet.
Construe them.
Shall e'er divorce my dignities.
Re-enter BOULT with MARINA
beggars were whipped, I would wish no better office
for a commodity of brown paper and old ginger,
is a basket: if he be of any reasonable stature, he
O the heavens!
Stand to me in this cause. O mother! wife!
Aside
all the chamber smelt him. 'Out with the dog!' says
I tremble stiff with fear: but if there be
What wilt thou tell her, nurse? thou dost not mark me.
She's otherwise, I'll keep my stables where
Or by the break of day disguised from hence:
Exeunt
Upon the right and party of her son?
If it please you to dine with us.
And give your hearts to, when they once perceive
Rule in this realm, and the gored state sustain.
And the late dignities heap'd up to them,
Dream of impediment! Let me have thy hand:
To shallow rivers, to whose falls
Nay. but his taunts.
With trees upon't, that nod unto the world,
And, in good time, here comes the sweating lord.
Like to the Egyptian thief at point of death,
We'll come to you after hunting.
terms: that is the humour of it.
My child? away with't! Even thou, that hast
Decrease not, but grow faster than the years:
Let me the knowledge of my fault bear with me:
In this close walk to satisfy myself,
Wish me partaker in thy happiness
Oh for our father, for our dear lord Clarence!
Her eye, and tell me for what dull part in't
I will entreat; my boy, a Briton born,
Witness against us to damnation!
Safe-conducting the rebels from their ships!
Rebellion's head, rise never till the wood
Pass our accept and peremptory answer.
Exeunt
It could not move thus.
And thereof comes the proverb: 'Blessing of your
Making practise on the times,
And therefore, lords, since he affects her most,
queen's, which accidentally, or by the way of
Of arts inhibited and out of warrant.
you a dozen of shirts to your back.
you in the behalf of a good play! I am not
What thou seest when thou dost wake,
The rather for I have some sport in hand
To doom the offenders, whatsoever they be
And not your knowledge, your personal pain, but even
Cease to persuade, my loving Proteus:
To set against me for your merriment:
Discomfort swells. Mark, king of Scotland, mark:
Well, Shylock, shall we be beholding to you?
And 'tis no little reason bids us speed,
Where bloody Tybalt, yet but green in earth,
To raise my fortunes. Thou old unhappy traitor,
Exeunt
How but well, sir? how but well?
coming a-night to Jane Smile; and I remember the
What would you say, if I should let you speak?
Comes this way to the melancholy vale,
I would sing my song without a burden: thou bringest
As market-men for oxen, sheep, or horse.
Worse than the scaring bell, when the brown wench
But never once again turn back and fly.
Tell him it was a hand that warded him
This let alone will all the rest confound.
I prithee, give me leave to curse awhile.
Upon himself.
letter: it was given me by Costard, and sent me
So the boy Love is perjured every where:
And hold your fortune for your bliss,
Well have you heard, but something hard of hearing:
Caesar, now be still:
Did you yet ever see Baptista's daughter?
Exeunt, fighting. Alarums
ANTIPHOLUS
Did prophesy that Richmond should be king,
They are all in order and march toward us.
Or any kind of light,
not an eagle's talon in the waist; I could have
[Aside]  If not, I'll ne'er trust medicine.
He and myself
She is abused, stol'n from me, and corrupted
Wounded to death.
Be living and be here?
And why thou comest thus knightly clad in arms,
Thereof most worthy, were I the fairest youth
Only for praise: and praise we may afford
laugh, cannot but make the judicious grieve; the
This is practise, Gloucester:
possible, with well-weighing sums of gold, to
fingres, de mails--
This lion is a very fox for his valour.
Madam, what makes you in this sudden change?
never nurse her child herself, for she will breed
Of favour from myself and all our house;
That modesty may more betray our sense
Exeunt
had ne'er come here.
your tongues, and not a word more.
So saucy with the hand of she here,--what's her name,
My name's Macbeth.
I believe drink gave thee the lie last night.
Ay, forsooth: but he is as tall a man of his hands
Sir John Falstaff.
An angel is like you, Kate, and you are like an angel.
Measure his woe the length and breadth of mine
And you withal shall make all Gallia shake.
The peril of our curses light on thee
Exeunt
For man or master; then it follows thus;
From where he circumscribed with his sword,
That faith would live again by death of need.
And given me notice of their villanies.
great a prince as you are.
Very vilely in the morning, when he is sober, and
do his kind.
To try his strength, forsaketh yet the lists
A halter gratis; nothing else, for God's sake.
With this cramm'd reason: reason and respect
I will not look upon your master's lines:
O, he was gentle, mild, and virtuous!
Why he hath made the ewe bleat for the lamb;
For it is after midnight; and ere day
A thing not in his power to bring to pass,
I have a good eye, uncle; I can see a church by daylight.
Is there any unkindness between my lord and you, monsieur?
You hear all these matters denied, gentlemen; you hear it.
Of his bones are coral made;
Not Gaunt's rebukes, nor England's private wrongs,
Had he been Adam, he had tempted Eve;
But, had it been the brother of my blood,
Yet standing in rich place, I multiply
Enter JAQUES, Lords, and Foresters
John Falstaff have committed disparagements unto
And know us by these colours for thy foes,
I long with all my heart to see the prince:
And sold their bodies for their country's benefit,
At mine own house, good lady.
Beneath is all the fiends';
Sings
What can be said against me.
And bid the main flood bate his usual height;
Come, brother, let us to the highest of the field,
Outran my purpose; and I return'd the rather
Will soon be drawn to head, from whence he moves
This was a great argument of love in her toward you.
Swell with the touches of those flower-soft hands,
could see the puppets dallying.
Upon a fearful summons. I have heard,
This maugre all the world will I keep safe,
Much feater than before: my brother's servants
I grant I am a woman; but withal
I humbly take my leave.
Master, is this Mistress Satan?
It is the wittiest partition that ever I heard
Our terrible approach.
And by that destiny to perform an act
The wise man's folly is anatomized
Sweet Sir Andrew!
Thy mother's dead.
We came to visit you, and purpose now
But whilst this muddy vesture of decay
I stay too long: but here my father comes.
While he was yet in Rome,
Re-enter CAESAR and his Train
Soft music
Therefore we will disperse ourselves: farewell.
Till we do hear from them.
For inequality; but let your reason serve
Yet I wish, sir,--
Big of this gentleman our theme, deceased
Brief, I pray you; for you see it is a busy time with me.
And this for Rutland; both bound to revenge,
To our own selves bend we our needful talk.
After he once fell in with Mistress Shore.
we two will rail against our mistress the world and
Able to bear against the great Aufidius
Hast thou tapp'd out and drunkenly caroused:
She would not hold out enemy for ever,
My ancestors did from the streets of Rome
Exeunt certain Officers
Though Page be a secure fool, an stands so firmly
This deserves death.
In countenance! Heaven shield your grace from woe,
Subscribed by the consuls and patricians,
Is not nine.
Makes me look dismal will I clip to form;
Therefore my hopes, not surfeited to death,
The course of true love never did run smooth;
By some damn'd hand was robb'd and ta'en away.
[Aside]  The Prince of Cumberland! that is a step
Laud we the gods;
Which, if thou hast consider'd, let us know
I would they were in Afric both together;
But let the frame of things disjoint, both the
Put not your worthy rage into your tongue;
The speech, of vantage. Fare you well, my liege:
Yet be content.
A king of beasts, indeed; if aught but beasts,
Your company to the Capitol; where, I know,
Though sometimes you do blench from this to that,
Match not the high perfection of my loss:
To heave the traitor Somerset from hence,
And heave it shall some weight, or break my back:
Alarum still
Go thou, and fill another room in hell.
This done, he took the bride about the neck
I know it;
Two bosoms interchained with an oath;
Those scraps are good deeds past; which are devour'd
Against the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray?
Thou virtuous Dauphin, alter not the doom
What should the wars do with these jigging fools?
Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you;
Bind him, I say.
What dost thou know?
Is dearest to me. I have no skill in sense
And, like true subjects, sons of your progenitors,
Proclaim that I can sing, weave, sew, and dance,
To know it further. Fears and scruples shake us:
And thou no breath at all? Thou'lt come no more,
To place upon the volume of your deeds,
the writing nor the tune.
To crown my thoughts with acts, be it thought and done:
But never till to-night, never till now,
from my snow-white pen the ebon-coloured ink, which
Enter MACDUFF
Pompey surnamed the Great;
O, let me stay, befall what may befall!
DON
With tears augmenting the fresh morning dew.
darkness and given your drunken cousin rule over
The motto, 'In hac spe vivo.'
For us, and for our tragedy,
By'r lady, I think it be so.
might be the pate of a politician, which this ass
Patient yourself, madam, and pardon me.
And be my vantage to exclaim on you.
Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon,
Than when he bites, but lanceth not the sore.
Of Charles the Great. Also King Lewis the Tenth,
will not hurt you. Come on; to't.
Talbot, my life, my joy, again return'd!
Shall be call'd queen, but princess dowager
O, what a scandal is it to our crown,
Enter PUCK
But yet let reason govern thy lament.
home and to trouble you with no more suit, unless
Come, make him stand upon this molehill here,
Look, where he comes.
Yes, my lord;
With caution that the Florentine will move us
What! I am dubb'd! I have it on my shoulder.
Seek to divert the English purposes.
It is a branch and parcel of mine oath,
And what was first but fear what might be done,
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
Like perspectives, which rightly gazed upon
O, come apace, dispatch! I partly feel thee.
when he is worst, he is little better than a beast:
Did, as he vouches, misreport your grace.
Is friendly with him.
barren rascal: I saw him put down the other day
Which blood, like sacrificing Abel's, cries,
And bring me their opinions of success.
And it pierces and sharpens the stomach. Come,
DON
Make claim and title to the crown of France.
'Mongst friends,
Too much hair there, but in a semicircle
For I am all the subjects that you have,
Go thou toward home; where I will never come
I do entreat your grace to pardon me.
small reflection of her wit.
His glassy essence, like an angry ape,
Well, if you were but an inch of fortune better than
of thy body that I am father to, then call me
That barefoot plod I the cold ground upon,
Follows singing
Where is it! taken from us it is: a hundred upon
I am about it; but indeed my invention
To-morrow then belike shall be the day,
Mine boy? not till King Henry be dead.
Ay me, he'll find the young man here, and be mad!
But, for your son,--believe it, O, believe it,
Thou sayest well, and it holds well too; for the
My hat to a halfpenny, Pompey proves the best Worthy.
May make against the house of Lancaster.
Will you go, coz?
Dear gentlewoman,
Yea, is the worst well? very well took, i' faith;
You should for that have reprehended him.
So, now uncape.
So fair an outward and such stuff within
A woman's story at a winter's fire,
For this is he that moves both wind and tide.
If you be she, I do entreat your patience
Kent, in the Commentaries Caesar writ,
Heaven will direct it.
We'll all assist you; he that flies shall die.
wing. Therefore when he sees reason of fears, as we
For there it is, crack'd in a hundred shivers.
And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
And from my shoulders crack my arms asunder.
What less than dooms-day is the prince's doom?
Him he knew well, and guess'd that it was she,
And bid her steal into the pleached bower,
For do we must what force will have us do.
Cleomenes and Dion, whom you know
[Within]  Francis!
Thus far our fortune keeps an upward course,
A spirit, a spirit: he says his name's poor Tom.
Stand back, thou manifest conspirator,
ACT IV
Poor painted queen, vain flourish of my fortune!
How art thou out of breath, when thou hast breath
Nay, sir, less than a pound shall serve me for
Thou and Oxford, with five thousand men,
As well my undertakings as your counsels:
A parley sounded. Enter REIGNIER on the walls
Enter JAQUENETTA and COSTARD
That I am forsworn for thee;
Approaching the door
Stay, father! for that noble hand of thine,
Wrath makes him deaf: speak thou, Northumberland.
The meat it feeds on; that cuckold lives in bliss
What shall I call thee when thou art a man?
[Aside]                  She speaks, and 'tis
This, Douglas? no: I know this face full well:
that the duchies of Anjou and Maine shall be
fights not. For Pistol, he hath a killing tongue
Sir, if you spend word for word with me, I shall
See this dispatch'd with all the haste thou canst:
Which were the greatest obloquy i' the world
And consequence of dread, that I committed
Fetch hither the swain: he must carry me a letter.
Bid Butler lead him forth into the park.
To hold opinion with Pythagoras,
Then to the point.
Rebell'd against the belly, thus accused it:
Why, what would you?
To TAMORA
That, if heaven slumber while their creatures want,
the forest: he hath been a courtier, he swears.
Nor get a messenger to bring it thee,
We here attend you. Are you yet determined
better acquainted.
Enter CAIUS MARCIUS
Give me thy glove, soldier: look, here is the
'Your meat doth burn,' quoth I; 'My gold!' quoth he:
medicines to make me love him, I'll be hanged; it
Then say if they be true. This mis-shapen knave,
Too well, too well.
So two, together weeping, make one woe.
To monarchize, be fear'd and kill with looks,
My necessaries are embark'd: farewell:
garments, your lowliness; and what your highness
Nay look not so upon me; we shall hear of your
And flies fled under shade, why, then the thing of courage
found 'em, there I smelt 'em out. Go to, they are
A natural guiltiness such as is his,
And show more sign of her obedience,
A noble earl and many a creature else
But keep our course, though the rough wind say no,
Because she is something lower than myself,
Tell me, may not a king adopt an heir?
Exeunt
Gloves as sweet as damask roses;
None of my lord's ring! why, he sent her none.
'Tis not to save labour, nor that I want love.
I go. Come, Nell, thou wilt ride with us?
Sometimes a thousand twangling instruments
I shall grow jealous of you shortly, Launcelot, if
When rather from our acts we them derive
Upon the company you overtake?
What says King Bolingbroke? will his majesty
Being free itself, it thinks all others so.
What shall be done to him?
Drummer, strike up, and let us march away.
Pitchers have ears, and I have many servants:
You had my prayers to lead them on; and to keep them
Every one.
Is he not like thee? is he not thine own?
Ay, my good lord.
What woman in the city do I name,
Exeunt
Do you see this? Look on her, look, her lips,
And thou shalt hunt a lion, that will fly
your arm, like a lieutenant's scarf? You must wear
O, pardon me for bringing these ill news,
When judges have been babes; great floods have flown
The revellers are entering, brother: make good room.
call him forth.
The play may pass, if they be still and willing,
Prosper you, sweet sir!
and by east from the west corner of thy curious-
Countless and infinite, yet would I pay them!
Were not you then as cruel as the sentence
And take a lodging fit to entertain
When you went onward on this ended action,
Beat down Alencon, Orleans, Burgundy,
Thus, while the vulture of sedition
Would now be glad of bread, and beg for it:
Then if she fear, or be to blame,
And justly too, I think, you fear the tyrant,
Exeunt CARDINAL, SOMERSET, and others
For, by my father's reverend tomb, I vow
not in't; but they themselves are o' the mind, if it
Shall be discover'd; please you, sit and hark.
Thy likeness, for instead of thee, King Harry,
Within these three hours, Tullus,
Nay, let him alone: I'll go another way to work
Because we see it; but what we do not see
I hope I am not too late; and yet the gentleman,
Did you say all? O hell-kite! All?
As if you were a feasted one and not
Because she brought stone jugs and no seal'd quarts:
Windsor leads a better life than she does: do what
I hope the king made peace with all of us
Is that Camillo was an honest man;
Held me in chase, that I was forced to wheel
Of smooth civility: yet am I inland bred
I'll have thy head for this thy traitor's speech.
Injurious duke, that threatest where's no cause.
Mine, sir.
Not her own sinews. To end a tale of length,
Hath she to change our loves. Beseech you, sir,
'Twill, a not be seen in him there; there the men
Take it, and do't; and leave me for this time.
I will lay a plot to try that; and we will yet have
Do you doubt that?
[Aside]  O excellent motion! O exceeding puppet!
He was much fear'd by his physicians.
'Oman, art thou lunatics? hast thou no
More than the instant army we can make,
Thou art always figuring diseases in me; but thou
For by my mother I derived am
My mind will never grant what I perceive
and so locks her in embracing, as if she would pin
These are portents; but yet I hope, I hope,
But like a drunkard must I vomit them.
May make too great an act: for learn this, Silius;
Unless I add, we are honest.
The southern wind
I will go on. I lay with Cassio lately;
What should I say to you? Should I not say
Gives a letter
Thus comes the English with full power upon us;
Within this hour I was his bondman sir,
With thee and all thy best parts bound together,
Enter OTHELLO, IAGO, and Gentlemen
With tokens thus, and thus; averting notes
Open the tomb, lay me with Juliet.
Would have shed water out of fire ere done't:
You should hear reason.
what things are we!
He kills another. Then Exton strikes him down
When I will wear a garment all of blood
No bed shall e'er be guilty of my stay,
Know that the people of Rome, for whom we stand
This deadly blot in thy digressing son.
Should solder up the rift.
She gave me for my pains a world of sighs:
Your suit's unprofitable; stand up, I say.
pen down my dilemmas, encourage myself in my
Why then 'tis mine, if but by Warwick's gift.
I needs must think it honesty. Camillo,
Makes me forgetful?
of most allowed sufficiency, yet opinion, a
In mangled forms. O that I were a fool!
Is wander'd forth, in care to seek me out
So am I given in charge, may't please your grace.
Your enemies are many, and not small; their practises
If my passion change not shortly, God forbid it
Are lank and lean with thy extortions.
Melancholy.
Their counsel turns to passion, which before
Till which encounter,
In honour of whose birth these triumphs are,
And milk comes frozen home in pail,
So, on your patience evermore attending,
Pray, speak what has happen'd.
Have other some: why, 'tis a happy thing
Your highness with herself.
You would have married her most shamefully,
Thy medicine on my lips; and let this kiss
Let not the piece of virtue, which is set
With its sweet air: thence I have follow'd it,
Sit.
I shall pay dear.
My idleness doth hatch. How now! Enobarbus!
Farewell, young lords; these warlike principles
him, nor any way sustain him.
And so was I: I'll bear you company.
In her unholy service. Patience, then,
Sir, your wit ambles well; it goes easily.
Beat loud the tabourines, let the trumpets blow,
It is a day turn'd strangely: or betimes
And how long is that, think you?
Draw, archers, draw your arrows to the head!
To plant and o'erwhelm custom. Let me pass
And give it Timon, why, the dog coins gold.
You will bestow her on Orlando here?
The match between Sir Thurio and my daughter.
She and the duke her husband!
Enter HELICANUS, with other Lords
Thou setter up and plucker down of kings,
Thou must not stay behind.
Had I but died an hour before this chance,
A pair of bleeding-hearts; thereon engrave
What! I must have a care of you.
The bloom that promiseth a mighty fruit.
I shall entreat him
But jealousy what might befall your travel,
Prepare for mirth, for mirth becomes a feast:
'Tis most like he will.
My utmost skill in his recovery, Provided
Hath after thee sent all thy treasure, with
Their force, their purposes; nay, I'll speak that
Bestow upon the eyes of this young couple
I will with you, if you be so contented,
I'd shake it on this quarrel. What do you mean?
What a coil's here!
That I shall blush in acting, and might well
He prettily and aptly taunts himself:
As now they are, and making practised smiles,
And I will set this foot of mine as far
Than foemen's marks upon his batter'd shield;
Hath so exasperate the king that he
And high and low beguiles the rich and poor:
Like to the glorious sun's transparent beams,
Enter a Messenger
Every day thou daffest me with some device, Iago;
I'll make my match to live,
Did look no better to that weighty charge.
No man but prophesied revenge for it.
that they speak i' the nose thus?
Farewell!
knives to cut one another's throats?
Pompey: you will turn good husband now, Pompey; you
But with such words that are but rooted in
When nobles are their tailors' tutors;
But Antonio is certainly undone.
Mount them, and make incision in their hides,
Nonsuits my mediators; for, 'Certes,' says he,
SCENE IV. A street.
With what thou else call'st thine. If thou refuse
In these two princely boys! They are as gentle
that hath laid knives under his pillow, and halters
Out on her, hilding!
resorters stand upon sound legs. How now!
Because she was enforced, stain'd, and deflower'd?
If he be, he knows how to turn his girdle.
porringer fell off her head, for kindling such a
Thou noble thing! more dances my rapt heart
Here to unfold, though lately we intended
Do you see, gentlemen? nay, guiltiness will speak,
Let me not stay a jot for dinner; go get it ready.
Cry, cry! Troy burns, or else let Helen go.
But meeting with Salerio by the way,
Stand forth, Demetrius. My noble lord,
another punishment?
Why, if you have a stomach, to't, monsieur: if you
Controlment for controlment: so answer France.
Nor dare to know that which I know. O sir!
That as it more concerns the Turk than Rhodes,
a week with bran and water.
To wrong my friend, I shall be much forsworn;
Tendering the precious safety of my prince,
This jarring discord of nobility,
Too modest are you;
Stamped in gold, but that's insculp'd upon;
I'll not sleep neither: this mortal house I'll ruin,
From top of honour to disgrace's feet?
And all the peers', for surety of our leagues.
You're welcome, my fair guests: that noble lady,
To chide at your extremes it not becomes me:
Hear from me still, and never of me aught
Under yond yew-trees lay thee all along,
Not Hermia but Helena I love:
How could he stay till Warwick made return?
Meantime look gracious on thy prostrate thrall.
That ever-valiant and approved Scot,
Stay, on thy peril: I alone will go.
Why, how now, kinsman! wherefore storm you so?
We will meet them,
Therefore let our alliance be combined,
That Clarence is so harsh, so blunt, unnatural,
And are not you my husband?
Effect it with some care, that he may prove
O, by whom?
Obey the bride, you that attend on her;
This was his gentleman in trust--of him
Enter an old Widow of Florence, DIANA, VIOLENTA, and MARIANA, with other Citizens
Shame hath a bastard fame, well managed;
What woman is this?
Of a glad father compass thee about!
You four, from hence to prison back again;
Exit
And melancholy is the nurse of frenzy:
ancients, corporals, lieutenants, gentlemen of
Both take and give.
For what reason, I beseech you?
Thy husband in thy bosom there lies dead;
A kneaded clod; and the delighted spirit
How these things came about: so shall you hear
Exit
Almost with ravish'd listening, could not find
Wherein I sigh not, Julia, for thy sake,
me out contracted bachelors, such as had been asked
Anon!
Were I the wearer of Antonius' beard,
And therewithal to win me, if you please,
biting of it, what pain she felt: truly, she makes
What's o'clock, think you?
You shall find me apt enough to that, sir, an you
Setting down his basket
Consign to thee, and come to dust.
Alas, I sent you money to redeem you,
Which God's dew quench! Therefore I say again,
But, were my worth as is my conscience firm,
Especially against his very friend.
To wish him dead, but thou hadst none to kill him.
a fool to make me merry than experience to make me
Of comfort, kingdom, kindred, freedom, life.
Which is the mightier: in his lawless fit,
We number nothing that we spend for you:
And would not dash me with their ragged sides,
And, gentle Puck, take this transformed scalp
Of his queen mother, which for more probation
Now cracks a noble heart. Good night sweet prince:
Yet, God before, tell him we will come on,
niece. O brave Hector! Look how he looks! there's
I hear some noise. Lady, come from that nest
Sirrah, if thy captain knew I were here, he would
Even such a passion doth embrace my bosom:
Thou offer'st fairly to thy brothers' wedding:
This was your motive
Come, therefore, let's about it speedily.
And baited it with all the unmuzzled thoughts
And an ill singer, my lord.
What light is light, if Silvia be not seen?
Expecting in return twenty for one?
prithee, how many boys and wenches must I have?
Away with him to death!
Tell not me:
For every drop of blood was drawn from him,
Flourish. Exeunt KING RICHARD II, QUEEN, DUKE OF AUMERLE, BUSHY, GREEN, and BAGOT
Show me this piece. I am joyful of your sights.
What is Pyramus? a lover, or a tyrant?
And keep you in the rear of your affection,
Nay, then thou wilt starve, sure; for here's nothing
Give up yourself merely to chance and hazard,
Would suffer him to spend his youth at home,
been drowned, but that the shore was shelvy and
I am half afraid he will have need of washing; so
Call it by what you will, the day is yours;
Tut, these are petty faults to faults unknown.
SCENE I. Rome. Before the Palace.
Even she; Leonato's Hero, your Hero, every man's Hero:
If with myself I hold intelligence
Howl, howl, howl, howl! O, you are men of stones:
I dreamt to-night that I did feast with Caesar,
thou rather to be hanged in compassing thy joy than
I have been up this hour, awake all night.
[Within]  Francis!
Cut off the heads of too fast growing sprays,
but the word 'noddy' for my pains.
Help, help, help!
Exit
He hath not told his thought to the king?
Further to boast were neither true nor modest,
This cardinal,
What meanest thou by that, Malvolio?
With hey, ho,  and c.
Is prisoner to the foe; his state usurp'd,
Where you'll be loath to be: besides you know
At Christmas I no more desire a rose
Enter BUCKINGHAM and DERBY
The king, sir,--
O, farewell, dear Hector!
Within six hours they will be at his aid.
Go to, go to;
For when you should be told they do prepare,
Ay, my good lord:--my lord, I should say rather;
But I will chastise this high-minded strumpet.
No, but the barber's man hath been seen with him,
What peremptory eagle-sighted eye
Flourish. Enter DUNCAN, MALCOLM, DONALBAIN, LENNOX, and Attendants
And favour of the climate. As by strange fortune
Enter Nurse, with cords
And her to whom my thoughts are humbled all,
But where unbruised youth with unstuff'd brain
Enter, with drum and colours, MARCIUS, TITUS  LARTIUS, Captains and Soldiers. To them a Messenger
aloud to him!
Which is to me some praise that I thy parts admire:
We be affied and such assurance ta'en
As I conceive the journey, be at the Mount
Into some covert: take your sweetheart's hat
I do beseech your grace,--
Enter NORTHUMBERLAND
Go see my lord aboard: for this time leave me.
I'll have mine action of battery on thee.
for you; and here's some for me: we may call it
And, having both together heaved it up,
you must go visit the good lady that lies in.
for my labour.
And eke out our performance with your mind.
do you think of the trade, Pompey? is it a lawful trade?
With all the cunning manner of our flight,
In short and musty straw? Alack, alack!
I'll do 't, my lord.
a Christian is? If you prick us, do we not bleed?
sell him an hour from her beholding, I, considering
Speak you this in my praise, master?
What's the matter?
Exit Attendant
As it may lose some colour.
Two of them did, the prince and Claudio; but the
To let my tongue excuse all. What was purposed
For violent fires soon burn out themselves;
There's a good grandam, boy, that would blot thee.
By this device.
When I a fat and bean-fed horse beguile,
As take from me thyself and not me too.
Prove me, my gracious sovereign.
ruttish: I pray you, sir, put it up again.
What, all my pretty chickens and their dam
Say again, where didst thou leave these varlets?
To know our further pleasure in this case,
Of contumelious, beastly, mad-brain'd war,
Who can do good on him?
Some devils ask but the parings of one's nail,
I am bound to thee for ever.
think you set nothing by a bloody coxcomb.
Come, come, let us thither: this may prove food to
But lusty, young, and cheerly drawing breath.
If I did take the kingdom from your sons,
sack finely.
Dolabella!
I understand thee well; and be thou sure,
And then return to us.
I'll drown more sailors than the mermaid shall;
Well I know the man.
Go, call before me all the lords in court.
the same abundance as your good fortunes are: and
His words were 'Farewell mistress;' nothing else.
Command an argosy to stem the waves.
That youth is surely in their company.
But let them hear what fearful words I utter.
And men in dangerous bonds pray not alike:
Yes, sir, I have indeed.
which is a disgrace to them, if they bear it.
I did swear patience.
Varies again; the grisly north
Mine would, sir, were I human.
This business is well ended.
William Lord Hastings had pronounced your part,--
places: your hearts are mighty, your skins are
His is the right, and therefore pardon me.
For this effect defective comes by cause:
as any man in Illyria.
And yet seem cold, the time you may so hoodwink.
Speak, for my heart is full.
You fools! I and my fellows
Flourish of cornets. Enter the PRINCE OF MOROCCO  and his train; PORTIA, NERISSA, and others attending
your hand to the buttery-bar and let it drink.
Make the sea serve them, which they ear and wound
exploit: yet slight ones will not carry it; they
They should find easy penance.
BRUTUS and CASSIUS whisper
Bring them before me.
If thou vouchsafe them. But if not, then know
Immoderately she weeps for Tybalt's death,
Ay, ay, he said four.
Go to kennel, Pompey; go.
Of the adjacent wharfs. The city cast
What, shall we suffer this? let's pluck him down:
I am to pray you not to strain my speech
I dedicate myself to your sweet pleasure,
The wofull'st man that ever lived in Rome:
Why the man dies. I humbly thank you, sir.
Was cursed instrument of his decease.
No, mighty liege; therefore mistrust me not.
learned by the perfectest report, they have more in
These poor informal women are no more
Draw, if you be men. Gregory, remember thy swashing blow.
A widow, husbandless, subject to fears,
The ingratitude of this Seleucus does
By this my issue's fail; and that gave to me
imagination to give them shape, or time to act them
That by your virtuous means I may again
Any silk, any thread,
foul breath, and foul breath is noisome; therefore I
Stand to and do as we.
You must be godfather, and answer for her.
My dangerous cousin, let your mother in:
That face of hers again. Therefore be gone
BISHOP
As things but done by chance.
No, but he's out o' tune thus. What music will be in
No, my lord.
Exit
What tributaries follow him to Rome,
I tell you what mine authors say:
Shall never see so much, nor live so long.
Could not find death where I did hear him groan,
And much effuse of blood doth make me faint.
I am dumb.
And have no vigour in them.
Ay; would they served us!
But shall I live in hope?
I had forgot myself; am I not king?
Does show the mood of a much troubled breast;
A falsehood in its contrary as great
Forbear to judge, for we are sinners all.
When that her golden couplets are disclosed,
Think what you will, we seize into our hands
You were a moveable.
Look there, look there!
I look for an earthquake too, then.
And wilt thou have a reason for this coil?
For God's sake, take away this captive scold.
for the light in thy face, the son of utter
Like signiors and rich burghers on the flood,
The pretty dimples of his chin and cheek,
Enter MARK ANTONY and SCARUS
So little of his great self.
Nay, I do bear a brain:--but, as I said,
Your honourable letter he desires
I do not desire you to please me; I do desire you to
RICHARD
Speak 'pardon' as 'tis current in our land;
makes very ill-favouredly.
To find ourselves dishonourable graves.
Draw after her. Pardon what I have spoke;
Wind away,
turn'd coward
Full often hath she gossip'd by my side,
See how the blood is settled in his face.
It doth remember me the more of sorrow;
And see already how he doth begin
His May of youth and bloom of lustihood.
Ah, madam, 'tis too true: and that is worse,
My love with words and errors still she feeds;
This deed will be well welcome to Lorenzo.
I'll bear them hence; but from their ashes shall be rear'd
If Brutus will vouchsafe that Antony
Put but a little water in a spoon,
And witch sweet ladies with my words and looks.
Known unto these, and to myself disguised!
Is, that his noble grace would have some pity
Our royal, good and gallant ship, our master
This marvel to you.
Do not, my lord.
Does yet depend.
Virtue and cunning were endowments greater
If Cassius might have ruled.
Commanded of me those most poisonous compounds,
Hast thou delight to see a wretched man
Now Warwick, tell me, even upon thy conscience,
Is this the man? Is't you, sir, that know things?
To make us wonder'd at in time to come.
'If not, let me see thee a servant still.'
Stephano, two Neapolitans 'scaped!
Each one, tripping on his toe,
Now, by the world, it is a lusty wench;
Pray thee, corporal, stay: the knocks are too hot;
Why, so I can, sir, but I will not now.
With this my son, Prince Edward, Henry's heir,
York and young Rutland could not satisfy.
There's for thyself, and that's for Tamora.
And so, my good lord mayor, we bid farewell.
Dieu de batailles! where have they this mettle?
But since my master and mistress have bought you,
Ho, Helicanus!
Enter ALONSO, SEBASTIAN, ANTONIO, FERDINAND, GONZALO, and others
Durst thou have look'd upon him being awake,
God shield you mean it not! daughter and mother
Of cruel war: sixty and nine, that wore
Him caper upright like a wild Morisco,
Mist-like, infold me from the search of eyes.
Or being, concern you not.
How?
sighed but they asked one another the reason, no
shall fall in love with Benedick; and I, with your
That not a horse is half the half of himself.
Pink for flower.
Enter KING CLAUDIUS and LAERTES
No, his mouth is stopp'd;
Trust me, my lord, all hitherto goes well;
And speaks not to himself but with a pride
That caused a lesser villain than myself,
Can we outrun the heavens? good Margaret, stay.
Muffle your false love with some show of blindness:
Most dread liege,
They should not laugh if I could reach them, nor
You have desire to purchase; and your store,
A good old man, sir; he will be talking: as they
For Henry, son unto a conqueror,
Then will I raise aloft the milk-white rose,
Rome shall record, and when I do forget
How many gentlemen have you lost in this action?
Some of those seven are dried by nature's course,
Against the bosom of the Prince of Wales:
As shall revenge his death before I stir.
Is noble Timon: of whose memory
Enter KENT and OSWALD, severally
I love you the better: the hearers may cry, Amen.
Skirmish again
Yes, forsooth, I will hold my tongue; so your face
Keeps place with thought and almost, like the gods,
Else might the world convince of levity
But resolution, and the briefest end.
Alas, what noise?
Pawn me to this your honour, she is his.
Beguiles the truer office of mine eyes?
And from that womb where you imprison'd were
Doubtless he would have made a noble knight;
To know what willing ransom he will give.
A dreadful lay! Address thee instantly.
Jack hath not Jill: these ladies' courtesy
Things of like value differing in the owners
O then, belike, you fancy riches more:
I was, fair madam.
The Senators descend, and open the gates
Then vail your ignorance; if none, awake
Did you hear the proclamation?
Did you too much disquiet: for that you must
Ay, marry, sweeting, if we could do that,
Of whence you are, your name and parentage.
I will not do't.
For my part, I am so attired in wonder,
So many fathom down precipitating,
And we shall make full satisfaction.
But I do wash his name out of my blood,
Whispers
Thou never didst them wrong, nor no man wrong;
Stand back; room; bear back.
Is not so long as is a tedious tale.
are sick. There is a man haunts the forest, that
Let not the sound of shallow foppery enter
not well cut,' he disabled my judgment: this is
My wish receive,
To Athens will I bear my folly back
Bells in your parlors, wild-cats in your kitchens,
Ghost
And she must not speak
You have paid the heavens your function, and the
church, and have a good priest that can tell you
Trumpets sound. Enter ALCIBIADES with his powers
Their woes are parcell'd, mine are general.
You know I am a woman, lacking wit
My friend Polixenes: which had been done,
it, nor am I yet persuaded to put up in peace what
Good work, you and your cry! Shall's to the Capitol?
Levied an army, weening to redeem
Why, hear you, my masters: was it for me to kill the
To bind me, or undo me; one of them.
Exeunt
my shin th' other day with playing at sword and
Of all the kingdom. Many more there are;
wilt quarrel with a man for cracking nuts, having no
Thus did he answer me: yet said, hereafter
And quench the guards of the ever-fixed pole:
Not a word of me. All that I will tell you is, that
And made us speak like friends: this man was riding
You mock me, sir.
And sees fast by a butcher with an axe,
Why, then the maid is mine from all the world,
The noble gentleman gave up the ghost.
Till our scale turn the beam. O rose of May!
Or did it from his teeth.
Where the devil should this Romeo be?
That said'st I begg'd the empire at thy hands.
You do me mischief. Fie, Demetrius!
Exeunt MARK ANTONY and CLEOPATRA with their train
I thought thou hadst been resolute.
Yet indirection thereby grows direct,
For that my sovereign liege was in my debt
sword on thy side, and yet thou rannest away: what
My lord, this would not be believed in Venice,
Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
Now, my lord.
Vienna ten year, I'll rent the fairest house in it
Well, the beginning, that is dead and buried.
Yet whether you accept our suit or no,
I am the provost. What's your will, good friar?
That it was he in the times past which held you
Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
What! is my Lord of Winchester install'd,
And mine shall ring thy dire departure out.
Turning from him
Falstaff, and drink canary with him.
Their very heart of hope.
This is no answer.
If the law would allow it, sir.
Be not afraid, though you do see me weapon'd;
In faith, I will go.
That can assure my daughter greatest dower
That I am ready to distrust mine eyes
But follows it, my lord, to bring me down
a smack o' the contrary. If ever thou be'st bound
Were piety in thine, it is in these.
A poor physician's daughter my wife! Disdain
Defer no time, delays have dangerous ends;
Tam lentus audis scelera? tam lentus vides?
In cash most justly paid.
Will yearly on the vigil feast his neighbours,
This is not Romeo, he's some other where.
The lesser is scarce felt. Thou'ldst shun a bear;
quarrels you may say he is wise; for either he
Good Lord, how like the empress' sons they are!
Wiped off, in honourable keeping her.
And offer me disguised in sober robes
Proposing with the prince and Claudio:
which is as much to say as, let the magistrates be
fear she'll prove as hard to you in telling your
With brazen din blast you the city's ear;
Therefore it must with circumstance be spoken
How young Leander cross'd the Hellespont.
With such a smooth, discreet and stable bearing
Hear it not, Duncan; for it is a knell
And now you know my meaning,
Isidore's Servant	There's the fool hangs on your back already.
Who's that? a Frenchman?
occupation, if I would not have taken him at a word,
The emperor's coming in behalf of France,
To be presented, by your victories,
Good king of cats, nothing but one of your nine
out water in foul way?
[To Provost]  Stay, sir; stay awhile.
My dainty duck, my dear-a?
Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
One hundred twenty six: added to these,
Hath there been such a time--I'd fain know that--
Who is as free from touch or soil with her
SCENE I. London. An ante-chamber in the KING'S palace.
Posterity, await for wretched years,
Except I be by Silvia in the night,
Yet none does know, but you, how she came dead,
I honour'd him, I loved him, and will weep
Than he appears by speech: this is unwonted
On me, and you, and mine, and yours for this!
The armourer and his man, to enter the lists,
From Egypt drive her all-disgraced friend,
Herod of Jewry dare not look upon you
Look on me with your welkin eye: sweet villain!
With your derision! none of noble sort
Wear this for me, one out of suits with fortune,
not: yet art thou good for nothing but taking up; and
Be my retentive enemy, my gaol?
That I have 'nointed an Athenian's eyes;
They all cry, 'Henry!'
There's no news at the court, sir, but the old news:
I leave you to your wisdom.
Of all exploits since first I follow'd arms,
So tediously away. The poor condemned English,
is more than the wit, for the greater hides the
Aim'd at your highness, no inveterate malice.
You hear the learn'd Bellario, what he writes:
That flies i' the purer air!
The law I bear no malice for my death;
Dismantle you, and, as you can, disliken
Music. Dance
To use it like a giant.
Where Caesar fought with Pompey: but these offers,
I would appeach him.
The nature of the sickness found, Ulysses,
Even such as they give out. I like your work;
Exeunt
They say she's mad.
The traitor lives, the true man's put to death.
Exit ANGELO
He will seek there, on my word. Neither press,
The seat of Gaunt, dukedom of Lancaster:
To pardon Mutius and to bury him.
And may: but, how? how satisfied, my lord?
How does my queen? Thou stormest venomously;
My noble gossips, ye have been too prodigal:
DON
shall use his foil and target; the lover shall not
the adventure, our crows shall fare the better
ACT II
In whom already he's well graced, can not
Above the reach or compass of thy thought?
to comfort me.
AEmilius, do this message honourably:
As seek to quench the fire of love with words.
And I say, the pollusion holds in the exchange; for
I will hear further reason for this.
Hoping it was but an effect of humour,
It is Othello's pleasure, our noble and valiant
Enter Ghost
But, by your favour,
come to take hands; and then, with public
Of Dun Adramadio, Dun Adramadio.
'Gainst whom the world cannot hold argument,
of a good conscience.
Why, that is nothing: for I tell you, father,
Adieu. I love not the humour of bread and cheese,
In viewing o'er the rest o' the selfsame day,
By thine own tongue thou art condemn'd, and must
None rare, my lord.
But that, forsooth, the bouncing Amazon,
A tempest, which his mortal vessel tears,
COUNTESS
Enter EXTON and Servant
So safely ordered that there is no soul--
Have I not told thee how I was cozened by the way
Hold! the general speaks to you; hold, hold, for shame!
Is worthy praise: but, shall I speak my conscience,
Of you their captives, which ourself have granted:
To VINCENTIO
Than Cleopatra; nor the queen of Ptolemy
Why should that name be sounded more than yours?
A sort of vagabonds, rascals, and runaways,
Of all professors else, make proselytes
Yes, good Griffith;
Sole monarch of the universal earth.
Labienus--
That lie and cog and flout, deprave and slander,
Awake, thou coward majesty! thou sleepest.
I have many enemies in Orsino's court,
Lord of his fortunes he salutes thee, and
and, truly, I hold it a sin to match in my kindred.
shepherd for food follows not the sheep: thou for
And that we find the slothful watch but weak,
have so much experience for my pains, and so, with
I'll sort some other time to visit you.
it argues an act: and an act hath three branches: it
Show!
Hang fated o'er men's faults light on thy daughters!
excellent wit? can virtue hide itself? Go to,
It doth, my worthy lord; and in this match
Then, when you come to Pluto's region,
[Aside to MENAS]  Go hang, sir, hang! Tell me of
Your mother's hand shall right your mother's wrong.
Go with me to it and I'll show it you and by the way
Made she no verbal question?
proclaims, shall be be set against a brick-wall, the
Of our so frank donation. Well, what then?
I gain'd my freedom, and immediately
For Angelo,
I am his brother, and I love him well.
Most pretty things to say: ere I could tell him
As true a dog as ever fought at head.
that will not drink to my niece till his brains turn
For shame! leave Henry, and call Edward king.
Else might I think that Clarence, Edward's brother,
Come, my lord.
For suddenly a grievous sickness took him,
O cunning enemy, that, to catch a saint,
For doting, not for loving, pupil mine.
I'll seem the fool I am not; Antony
Nor heaven peep through the blanket of the dark,
But, being seasoned with a gracious voice,
And well he might so do,
I have seen two such sights, by sea and by land!
That Benedick loves Beatrice so entirely?
You cram these words into mine ears against
Poor shadows of Elysium, hence, and rest
Well said, my lord! well, you say so in fits.
Of those effects for which I did the murder,
As partly I find it is, that your fair daughter,
No more, but that you read
Such factious emulations shall arise!
Say it be, 'tis true.
He loves your wife; there's the short and the long.
Where is the post that came from valiant Oxford?
Go we, as well as haste will suffer us,
I hate ingratitude more in a man
For yet a many of your horsemen peer
And now he writes to heaven for his redress:
And thou by some incensed god sent hither
fronts encountering,
A spirit raised from depth of under-ground,
Buys herself bread and clothes: it is a creature
Here, at thy hand: be bold, and take thy stand.
must produce for an interpreter.
Ten o'clock: within these three hours 'twill be
prologue to an egg and butter.
So soon to bid good morrow to thy bed:
Where life hath no more interest but to breathe!
Tune my distresses and record my woes.
For in an act of this importance 'twere
Ay, but the citizens favor Lucius,
Enter MARK ANTONY with Attendants
Wiped the black scruples, reconciled my thoughts
gentleman, you shall, if you will, enjoy Ford's wife.
Then, Aaron, arm thy heart, and fit thy thoughts,
I have no further with you.' Was not this mockery?
Before I would have granted to that act.
Above the morning lark or wilt thou hunt?
Now while I speak this, holds his wife by the arm,
And that most deeply to consider is
'Tis good for men to love their present pains
As thunder threatens us: this is Marina.
My name is call'd Vincentio; my dwelling Pisa;
justices could not take up a quarrel, but when the
For if the king like not the comedy,
He might return to vasty Tartar back,
As index to the story we late talk'd of,
The voice of Cassio: Iago keeps his word.
for that I insinuate, or toaze from thee thy
I would surrender it.
Enter CORIOLANUS with Patricians
Beside five hundred prisoners of esteem,
Without defeat. Therefore to France, my liege.
Now Romeo is beloved and loves again,
And apprehended here immediately
Not only, sir, this your all-licensed fool,
We will proceed no further in this business:
Cupid's butt-shaft is too hard for Hercules' club;
Gaoler, look to him: tell not me of mercy;
Rest thy unrest on England's lawful earth,
Here, as before, never, so help you mercy,
and my old Venetian friend Salerio?
The uglier seem the clouds that in it fly.
In congregations, to yawn, be still and wonder,
RICHARD
Beginning nor supplyment.
offence, Claudio?
They converse apart
Running it thus--you'll tender me a fool.
accusation.
i' the country; for you'll be rotten ere you be half
'Gan in your duller Britain operate
Welcome is banishment; welcome were my death.
But, stay: what news? Why comest thou in such post?
Were it not pity that this goodly boy
It is yours;
Pierced through the heart with your stern cruelty:
What Conrade!
Here's too small a pasture for such store of muttons.
I'll kiss thy foot; I'll swear myself thy subject.
So, two more already.
[Rising]  My words fly up, my thoughts remain below:
shall hear how things go; and, I warrant, to your
Pray you then,
And by the happy hollow of a tree
And what to?
No great offence belongs to't, give your friend
SCENE II. Field of battle between the British and Roman camps.
in his jealousy till now.
No, my good knight;
speak with you.
I have heard a sonnet begin so to one's mistress.
You may wear her in title yours: but, you know,
The strings, my lord, are false.
SCENE II. The same. A room in the palace.
'Tis that he sent me of the duke's return:
Peto; so did you, Bardolph: you are lions too, you
And it is very much lamented, Brutus,
With character too gross is writ on Juliet.
What sense had I of her stol'n hours of lust?
Near or far off, well won is still well shot,
Go to; farewell. Do you hear, Roderigo?
Things known betwixt us three, I'll write you down:
'The mobled queen?'
Himself with princes; one that, by suggestion,
Do not muse at me, my most worthy friends,
Enter STANLEY
Safest in shame! being fool'd, by foolery thrive!
presently; where, for one shot of five pence, thou
Thou rather shalt enforce it with thy smile
Doth long to see unarm'd the valiant Hector.
Scarce show a harvest of their heavy toil:
His son was but a ward two years ago.
I did very well note him.
Infects one comma in the course I hold;
He hath against himself.
Must gently be preserved, cherish'd, and kept:
Hast not a tongue? is she not here?
devil my master knew she was Margaret; and partly
Hath any honour, but honour for those honours
This is no mortal business, nor no sound
Against his liking: think you it is so?
Harp not on that, nor do not banish reason
They that stabb'd Caesar shed no blood at all,
God knows how long it is I have to live;
Of watery Neptune, is now bound in with shame,
Gobbo, use your legs, take the start, run away. My
What to ourselves in passion we propose,
And therefore comes it that his head is light.
Or by some habit that too much o'er-leavens
By Chrish, la! tish ill done: the work ish give
Make rash remonstrance of my hidden power
Let us assail the family of York.
The other, London.
Behind the arras I'll convey myself,
Put on what weary negligence you please,
I think it be, sir; I deny it not.
Re-enter PRINCE HENRY and POINS
Exit VAUX
[Aside]  A' must needs; for beggary is valiant.
Re-enter PAULINA
And kill the innocent gazer with thy sight;
Do break the clouds, as did the wives of Jewry
A form of strangeness as we pass along:
I could not find him at the Elephant:
villain: she fetches her breath as short as a
Why seek'st thou then to cover with excuse
Is of a sudden thus advanced in Rome?
SCENE I. A public place.
In any thing that I do know by her.
Your partner in the cause 'gainst which he fought,
And didst contract and purse thy brow together,
Flute, you must take Thisby on you.
Which, by the sign thereof was termed so.
Of hostile paces: those opposed eyes,
occasion to use me for your own turn, you shall find
do yours, for upholding the nice fashion of your
Know you not
When Tarquin made a head for Rome, he fought
And, by my fall, the conquest to my foe.
Pour all your tears! I am your sorrow's nurse,
Some devil whisper curses in mine ear,
Must I rob the law?
The sword of our slain kings: yet do not fear;
For wise men are grown foppish,
But yet a woman: and for secrecy,
I ratify this my rich gift. O Ferdinand,
The unhappy son of old Andronicus:
For who hates honour hates the gods above.
And forth my mimic comes. When they him spy,
My fortunes every way as fairly rank'd,
Nay, wherefore should they, since that I myself
[Aside]  If a talent be a claw, look how he claws
false of heart that way; and that he knew, I warrant
All hail, Macbeth! hail to thee, thane of Glamis!
We have some old crab-trees here
He hath honour'd me of late; and I have bought
I have the letter here; yes, here it is.
Lady, wherefore talk you so?
O, look, sir, look, sir! here is more of us:
Hark ye, your Romeo will be here at night:
it, it transmigrates.
What is't o'clock?
more eloquence in a sugar touch of them than in the
appertaining to thy young days, which we may
And nature must obey necessity;
Thanks, provost, for thy care and secrecy:
But, soft, I pray you: what, did Caesar swound?
I knowing all my peril, thou no art.
as had as lieve hear the devil as a drum; such as
who committed treason enough for God's sake,
O Lord, sir, I'll be sworn upon all the books in
Where I must take like seat unto my fortune,
What shall be done with him? what is your plot?
Therefore let Benedick, like cover'd fire,
Here is a friar, and slaughter'd Romeo's man;
Who dares do more is none.
We'll ne'er come there again.'
The one in fear to lose what they enjoy,
Thanks to your majesty.
A landless knight makes thee a landed squire.
Upon the giddy footing of the hatches,
I had most need of blessing, and 'Amen'
To die in ruffian battle? Even at this sight
Come, tell me whose it was.
Camillo was his help in this, his pander:
He bravely broach'd is boiling bloody breast;
acutely. I will return perfect courtier; in the
Gerard de Narbon was my father;
I hold dear as my finger; 'tis part of it.
may be to the flight of my master.
Exit above
That minister'st a potion unto me
Or rather then set forward; for 'twill be
Why, then you should discover a brace of unmeriting,
look you, this leek: because, look you, you do not
Caesar can hide the sun from us with a blanket, or
Why, uncle, 'tis a shame.
it drizzles rain; and I will, like a true drunkard,
The injuries that they themselves procure
Prithee, no more: let him come when he will;
Those that I never saw and struck them dead.
in friendship, and I will one way or other make you amends.
could come to such honour!
[Aside]  Nay, John, it will be stinking law for his
[To KING RICHARD III]
The soldiers' music and the rites of war
Now will I in, to take some privy order,
Were you made the messenger?
Your hidden worthiness into your eye,
Over whose acres walk'd those blessed feet
We have done our course; there's money for your pains:
O, do not do your cousin such a wrong.
Truly, lady, no.
whoreson must be acknowledged. Do you know this
Enter SUFFOLK and QUEEN MARGARET
Of very expert and approved allowance;
O heinous, strong and bold conspiracy!
Or else what follows?
A sea of melting pearl, which some call tears:
To waste these times. Good hour of night, Sir Thomas!
What hath quench'd them hath given me fire.
Are you so hasty now? well, all is one.
Would be even mortal to me.
We must do something, and i' the heat.
Girding with grievous siege castles and towns;
And they shall be immediately deliver'd.
With humble and familiar courtesy,
Which fronted mine own peace. As for my wife,
Spare not for the cost.
That none but fools would keep: a breath thou art,
Shall there attend you.
Who hast not in thy brows an eye discerning
To be regarded in her sun-bright eye.
As you did mean indeed to be our brother;
From Milan did supplant good Prospero;
Ay, my lord.
Enter PRINCE HENRY and PETO, marching, and FALSTAFF meets them playing on his truncheon like a life
Assist me, then, sweet Warwick, and I will;
uneducated, unpruned, untrained, or rather,
I, by attorney, bless thee from thy mother
An he had been cannibally given, he might have
But we will visit you at supper-time.
There's the point.
Or less,--at first?--perchance he spoke not, but,
The advancement of your children, gentle lady.
That I have done for you.
Come, Montague; for thou art early up,
To burn the lodging where you use to lie
How she holds up the neb, the bill to him!
How then might your prayers move!
So, one by one, we'll weed them all at last,
I am dying, Egypt, dying; only
I and my hundred knights.
The moment on't; for't must be done to-night,
Thus violently redress.
Ghost beckons HAMLET
fashions: you shall fare well; you shall have the
But see where Somerset and Clarence come!
My griefs cry louder than advertisement.
In which addition, hail, most worthy thane!
What man dare, I dare:
Stand, and go back.
ANTIPHOLUS
Giving him the paper
And all your southern gentlemen in arms
Make boot upon the summer's velvet buds,
And, as you answer, I do know the scope
Will cry for vengeance at the gates of heaven.
To keep those many many bodies safe
This calf bred from his cow from all the world;
I hope he be in love.
That were I ta'en here it would scarce be answer'd.
And not to be a rebel to her state;
You fight in justice: then, in God's name, lords,
SCENE I. Without the Florentine camp.
which he thinks is a patent for his sauciness; and,
O lamentable day!
For costs and charges in transporting her!
my horse to my mistress.
Of Albany's and Cornwall's powers you heard not?
Stir with the lark to-morrow, gentle Norfolk.
SCENE V. Dunsinane. Within the castle.
I will lay trust upon thee; and thou shalt find a
The court awards it, and the law doth give it.
I know not whether to depart in silence,
It is to be recovered: but that the merit of
if he could burn us all into one coal,
Observe his inclination in yourself.
Which scarcely keeps thee warm. But, for true need,--
The frame and huge foundation of the earth
As bird doth sing on bough.
beadle, whip him till he leap over that same stool.
Thou art not ignorant what dear good will
Of which if you should here disfurnish me,
Still-waking sleep, that is not what it is!
To see a goodlier man.
Will I with wine and wassail so convince
And I.
And let the queen know of our gests. To-morrow,
If thou be merciful,
And of the Cannibals that each other eat,
Porter, remember what I gave in charge;
Were half to half the world by the ears and he.
Till that Bellona's bridegroom, lapp'd in proof,
It is not likely
To-morrow will it please you to be crown'd?
To be thus jaded by a piece of scarlet,
For she is good, hath brought you forth a daughter;
Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
[Kneeling]  Pardon, my lord, for me and for my tidings.
For so we are inform'd, with new opinions,
Now, gods that we adore, whereof comes this?
Sit down awhile;
I am content: provide me soldiers, lords,
Compare dead happiness with living woe;
To darkness fleet souls that fly backwards. Stand;
The knights and gentlemen to come with thee:
We may as well push against Powle's, as stir em.
I thought no less: it is his policy
Save these men's looks; who do, methinks, find out
O, yes, into a thousand similes.
Enter, from the brothel, two Gentlemen
Can you not see? or will ye not observe
Very hand of heaven.
[Aside]  O, ho, I know the riddle.--I will go.
To trouble and disturb the king and us?
Blue, my lord.
Sir, my liege,
Are come with Cassius.
To see thy son and heir more early down.
That beats upon the high shore of this world,
I cannot conceive you.
To come with him along.
I ran it through, even from my boyish days,
Or till the Destinies do cut his thread of life.
And to my humble seat conform myself.
Than what you look on now.
Love make your fortunes twenty times above
Follow'd my banishment, and this twenty years
Sebastian, I have entertained thee,
They were not born for bondage.
No longer on Saint Denis will we cry,
Who sues to thee and cries 'God save the queen'?
Five moons!
To lay his gay comparisons apart,
Good my lord, pardon me:
Lend me your horn to make one, and I will whip about
Should, if a coward heard her speak these words,
That's something yet: Edgar I nothing am.
'Mongst all foes that a friend should be the worst!
him: it must be a personating of himself; a satire
Arise, and say how thou camest here.
Let it be so: I do commit his youth
Why art thou thus attired, Andronicus?
What should this mean?
I mean, Master Slender, what would you with me?
And nothing can or shall content my soul
Sirrah, be gone, or talk not, I advise you.
Last night she slept not, nor to-night she shall not;
I shall, King Harry. And so fare thee well:
Bagot, forbear; thou shalt not take it up.
Therefore know thou, for this I entertain thee.
That I was constant Cimber should be banish'd,
Enter PATROCLUS
Which is the high and mighty Agamemnon?
More holy and profound, than mine own life,
If aught possess thee from me, it is dross,
The Nevils are thy subjects to command.
To seek the empty, vast and wandering air;
Till now some nine moons wasted, they have used
Ay, and the best she shall have; and my favour
Or with their blood stain this discolour'd shore.
Dies
I do appoint him store of provender:
Did call my father, was I know not where
God-den to you all, god-den to you all.
Oui, vraiment, sauf votre grace, ainsi dit-il.
Something that hath a reference to my state
O well-a-day, Mistress Ford! having an honest man
Not so, I do beseech your majesty.
For such as we are made of, such we be.
To the house of Signior Baptista Minola?
Vanish, or I shall give thee thy deserving,
One of these two must be necessities,
If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
foot, look you, is fixed upon a spherical stone,
your letter I am very sick: but in the instant that
Henry the Fourth by conquest got the crown.
This sword but shown to Caesar, with this tidings,
Pray, sit between these ladies.
Thetis, being proud, swallow'd some part o' the earth:
Which the dark night hath so discovered.
Hath too much mangled; whose repair and franchise
Yet their own authors faithfully affirm
Resign to death; it is not worth the enjoying:
And take my ministers along with me.
no more words.
He is an usurer: strike me the counterfeit matron;
Thou wast within a ken: O Jove! I think
My most exquisite Sir Topas!
Moreover, sir, which indeed is not under white and
that I am an ass. No, thou villain, thou art full of
He lies to-night within seven leagues of Rome.
Do not for ever with thy vailed lids
I'll fish for thee and get thee wood enough.
You see this chase is hotly follow'd, friends.
After so many hours, lives, speeches spent,
As peace should stiff her wheaten garland wear
I hope he is much grown since last I saw him.
Convert o' the instant, green virginity,
Ah, now thou turn'st away thy face for shame!
But now return we to the false Duke Humphrey.
Well; come to me to-morrow.
And twenty of these puny lies I'll tell,
have you whipt: so, for this time, Pompey, fare you well.
O, why rebuke you him that loves you so?
I'll pawn the little blood which I have left
They are at it, hark! Proud Diomed, believe,
Harry Bolingbroke doth humbly kiss thy hand;
Withdraw yourselves.
The king has gone beyond me: all my glories
No.
Lies down upon his face
The hopeless word of 'never to return'
Exeunt
No less in pity than his glory which
This is the man, this is Antonio,
South-sea of discovery; I prithee, tell me who is it
Trumpet within
Look pale as primrose with blood-drinking sighs,
My fore-past proofs, howe'er the matter fall,
Exposing it--but, O, the harder heart!
Where powers are your retainers, and your words,
Nothing afeard of what thyself didst make,
Instantly know; and of that letter too:
And, like Limander, am I trusty still.
They call him Ajax.
without asking my good will?
I speak not like a dotard nor a fool,
when we are sick in fortune,--often the surfeit
While they do tend the profit of the land.
I, King Pericles, have lost
Thou hast one son; for his sake pity me,
Against the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray?
Came here in grace our solemnity.
So bloodily hast struck?
When it is born in high authority:
Of many worthy fellows that were out;
Ay, and wisely.
'Tis thought your deer does hold you at a bay.
I will do this, if I can bring it to any
I will discharge thee.
So slight a valuation, should reserve
Since this same wayward girl is so reclaim'd.
What art thou, fellow?
We have no reason to desire it,
Motion and breath left out.
And then my husband--God be with his soul!
She and the Dauphin have been juggling:
A thousand businesses are brief in hand,
He is a friend.
Bring this apparel to my chamber; that is the second
O, the more angel she,
Art not without ambition, but without
Not you, my brother, with your true sword drawn,
Give it the beasts, to be rid of the men.
Wilt thou destroy him then?
Under the service of a child as soon
'C fa ut,' that loves with all affection:
For fear of that, I still will stay with thee;
I give him his answer?
Can pluck the diadem from faint Henry's head,
Were there no more but it.
knave, mine host.
Deposing thee before thou wert possess'd,
Leave you! wherefore?
As if I were their well-acquainted friend;
The king himself in person is set forth,
other ventures he hath, squandered abroad. But ships
my way shall be paved with English faces.
So that from point to point now have you heard
sufficiently manage, must either stay to execute
If love have touch'd you, nought remains but so,
Whose note full many a man doth mark,
Thank, gentle uncle. Come, lords, away.
make you dance. 'Zounds, consort!
I thank thee, master.
But not one follower.
Like syllable of dolour.
The leading of the vaward.
Six of his labours you'ld have done, and saved
More hair than wit? It may be; I'll prove it. The
The king cried Ha! at this.
'When griping grief the heart doth wound,
You will return and sojourn with my sister,
wringing her hands, and all our house in a great
With that, all laugh'd and clapp'd him on the shoulder,
Long live Richard, England's royal king!
Hath been as continent, as chaste, as true,
But yet, methinks, my father's execution
Me and my service, ever whilst I live,
For corn at their own rates; whereof, they say,
the breach yourselves made, you lose your city. It
have words to speak in thine ear will make thee
So out of circumstance and sudden, tells us
He were much goodlier: is't not a handsome gentleman?
[Within]  Nor to-day here you must not; come again
Exeunt King Henry, Blunt, and train
He came alive to land.
Sir?
To both these sisters have I sworn my love;
Caius Ligarius doth bear Caesar hard,
Of sky-aspiring and ambitious thoughts,
As much as ever Coriolanus did.
circumstance: that which you hear you'll swear you
Dear lady daughter, peace! Sweet sovereign,
down-feather,
Whether Caesar will come forth to-day, or no;
And weigh thy value with an even hand:
And he shall buy my daughter; and her presence
That rise thus nimbly by a true king's fall.
SCENE I. The frontiers of Mantua. A forest.
Hungary's!
And fall thy edgeless sword: despair, and die!--
Rather in power than use, and keep thy friend
Foul stigmatic, that's more than thou canst tell.
Well, I have done: but yet,--
You, madam, for you are more nobly born,
Come, shall we go and kill us venison?
In the end of autumn turned to the rams,
If you shall chance, Camillo, to visit Bohemia, on
The death of each day's life, sore labour's bath,
No cause, no cause.
If I cannot recover your niece, I am a foul way out.
First let me talk with this philosopher.
To bed! ay, sweet-heart, and I'll come to thee.
O, be thou damn'd, inexecrable dog!
Why had I not with charitable hand
The greatest note of it is his melancholy.
Heaven let me bear it! you granting of my suit,
When all aloud the wind doth blow
That I do beg his life, if it be sin,
Hold thee, from this, for ever. The barbarous Scythian,
By laying defects of judgment to me; but
Tarry a little; there is something else.
You see this confluence, this great flood
ANTIPHOLUS
Desire him to go in; trouble him no more
And where's your lesson, then? Boy, what say you?
Bon jour, Monsieur Le Beau: what's the news?
Tempests are kind and salt waves fresh in love.
'Tis to his virtue a just equinox,
thoughts, and hot deeds? Why, they are vipers:
We but offend him. Strike!
it should take joy
If at Philippi we do face him there,
Buckingham's army is dispersed and scatter'd;
All that is won and lost: give me a kiss;
Direct my sail! On, lusty gentlemen.
How does the king?
When, for some trifling present, you have bid me
it that always makes a good voyage of nothing. Farewell.
Ay me, for pity! what a dream was here!
Exeunt
Exit
Henry the Fifth did sometime prophesy,
Sir, I know him, and I love him.
O spite! too old to be engaged to young.
Upon the pikes o' the hunters. Then began
These are complements, these are humours; these
Murder's as near to lust as flame to smoke:
despite of a fall. But, turning these jests out of
Dead though she be, she feels her young one kick:
Now when the lords and barons of the realm
Faith, I will live so long as I may, that's the
As well assured Richard their king is dead.
This oracle of comfort has so pleased me,
Nature in you stands on the very verge
In my heart's love hath no man than yourself:
Ay, gentle Thurio: for you know that love
Is the initiate fear that wants hard use:
For I mine own gain'd knowledge should profane,
Twinkling another counterfeited beam,
But of all, the burst
Nay, then, thou mock'st me. Thou shalt buy this dear,
And trust not simple Henry nor his oaths.
It seem'd, appear'd to Rome. By the discovery.
Exit
And even the like precurse of fierce events,
Death makes no conquest of this conqueror;
I must go send some better messenger:
Exeunt all but HAMLET
There's more depends on this than on the value.
And if you crown him, let me prophesy:
Cup us, till the world go round!
You are an alchemist; make gold of that.
Have you done yet?
Engage it to the trial, if thou darest.
Enter LAUNCELOT and JESSICA
Since you are like to see the king before me,
Beware the ides of March.
Thou that contrivedst to murder our dead lord;
the fleet: I would he had boarded me.
Trust me, a mad host. Follow, gentlemen, follow.
That's Antenor: he has a shrewd wit, I can tell you;
What know believe, and what I can redress,
We met him thitherward; for thence we came,
Then let them anatomize Regan; see what breeds
By him not ruin'd? then is he the ground
Let us do so: for we are at the stake,
Let no such man be trusted. Mark the music.
Go get thee gone; fetch me an iron crow.
They vanish tongue-tied in their guiltiness.
And think it not the worst of an your fortunes
my every action to be guided by others' experiences:
Enter ROSENCRANTZ
To feed my humour, wish thyself no harm.
Minding true things by what their mockeries be.
My father's wit and my mother's tongue, assist me!
In that he spake too far.
it on a giant. Bring up the brown bills. O, well
Hark you, sir: I'll have them very fairly bound:
For pity of mine age, whose youth was spent
But not, as I am, royal.
With the help of a surgeon he might yet recover, and
As who goes farthest.
Aside
It may be, very likely.
This is the day that, in King Edward's time,
By the fool multitude, that choose by show,
But if I tell how these two did co-act,
Blush'd at herself; and she, in spite of nature,
Ourself and Bushy, Bagot here and Green
a coward, but he's the very devil incardinate.
Bodykins, Master Page, though I now be old and of
And so, God be with him! Here comes newer comfort.
with garlands!
hook--what a plague call you him?
The beauty of his daughter; he himself
Then let your servants bring my husband forth.
His war for Britain.
If you contend, a thousand lives must wither.
the pestilence; to sigh, like a school-boy that had
Unless by robbing of your friends and us.
and bleed to death upon. Now, the dry serpigo on
With that which here his passion doth express?
And she believes, wherever they are gone,
Why have you suffer'd me to be imprison'd,
Your friends at Pomfret, they do need the priest;
Reproach and everlasting shame
To fetch his daughter home, who first is gone.
Than thou hast spoken words?
Silence is the perfectest herald of joy: I were
trust my expectation.
I'ld not have sold her for it.
Well, on: Mistress Ford, you say,--
That feed'st me with the very name of meat:
Go to him, madam, speak to him:
Your ear is good. Cassius, what night is this!
knock; never at quiet! What are you? But
I'll hale the Dauphin headlong from his throne:
Why, it stood by her: she has light by her
Where death's approach is seen so terrible!
he hath eaten: they are never curst but when they
I must with haste from hence.
Exeunt all but HAMLET
Mercury, lose all the serpentine craft of thy
In Florence was it from a casement thrown me,
Master, this prisoner freely give I thee;
blessing I am at him upon my knees every morning and
A' will make the man mad, to make a woman of him.
Enough then for your wonder. But, come on,
I have an hour's talk in store for you;
What seest thou?
Have hither march'd to your endamagement:
But for some other reasons, my grave sir,
By sea, by sea.
comes himself.
Madam, not yet: I go to take my stand,
And think you now are all in Mytilene.
I will be satisfied; let me see the writing.
Exit Boy
He says, my lord, your daughter is not well.
Where I shall kneel to him that slew my father!
Dost thou entreat me, Hector?
Why, man, they did make love to this employment;
Whose baser stars do shut us up in wishes,
that thou't scarce worth.
Things have been strangely borne. The
Caesar and Lepidus
From your own mouth, my lord, did I this deed.
And give assurance to Baptista Minola,
And I to be a corporal of his field,
In a rich chair of state, opposing freely
Come, good sir, will you show me to this house?
Lord Lucius, and you princes of the Goths,
For the great swing and rudeness of his poise,
discretion; I had as lief thou didst break his neck
They are not constant but are changing still
Would I had never trod this English earth,
How can the law forbid my tongue to curse?
give me; in your conscience, now?
At your sweet pleasure, for the mountain.
And marshal me to knavery. Let it work;
Follow thine enemy in a fiery gulf
He flashes into one gross crime or other,
Marquess Dorset:
Why should Titania cross her Oberon?
of 'we three'?
had no other books but the score and the tally, thou
I will tell you sensibly.
I thank thee for that jest; here's a garment for't:
Will you go, sister? Shepherd, ply her hard.
But twenty times so much upon my wife.
What counts harsh fortune casts upon my face;
And not have it, 'twere a paper lost,
And ours with thine, befall what fortune will.
Good morrow, ladies. What were't worth to know
That with the plume: 'tis a most gallant fellow.
To die by thee were but to die in jest;
all mine: and, Kate, when France is mine and I am
Though our silence be drawn from us with cars, yet peace.
Full well hath Clifford play'd the orator,
Unto this king of smiles, this Bolingbroke,--
That more for praise than purpose meant to kill.
Now will he be swinged for reading my letter; an
What means that bloody knife?
I'ld whistle her off and let her down the wind,
Sings
You would have been contracted to a maid;
O, sweet my mother, cast me not away!
The advantage of the time prompts me aloud
To threaten me with death is most unlawful.
This handkercher was stain'd.
Nay, be thou sure I'll well requite thy kindness,
Then Clarence is at hand, I hear his drum.
Speakest thou from thy heart?
We house i' the rock, yet use thee not so hardly
I am not Cinna the conspirator.
well, they imitated humanity so abominably.
Is by the stern Lord Clifford done to death.
Out, rascal dogs!
Sometime for three-foot stool mistaketh me;
It is too heavy for your grace to wear.
If it be husbanded with modesty.
So loving-jealous of his liberty.
toy in hand here, sir: nay, pray be covered.
Here the lady sings a Welsh song
he is in the wane; but yet, in courtesy, in all
transformation!
Excitements of my reason and my blood,
Anon, anon.
Then, good my lord, take to your royal self
Exeunt Clown, FABIAN, SIR TOBY BELCH, and SIR ANDREW
It draws toward supper in conclusion so.
Sirs, what's o'clock?
Give mistress Shore one gentle kiss the more.
From the great compt: but love that comes too late,
come? to see: why did he see? to overcome: to
But what's the matter, Clarence?  may I know?
As if he were of note: bring him to the king.
And did you leave him in this contemplation?
I am a woodland fellow, sir, that always loved a
And part the numbers.
Then you say as I say; for, I am sure, he is not Hector.
ACT I
By thee, old Capulet, and Montague,
To lure this tassel-gentle back again!
Come, I will fasten on this sleeve of thine:
Most abject in regard and dear in use!
I will, my liege.
Ay, almost slain, for he is taken prisoner,
wing of all occasions. But whatsoever I have
Than shame to the Romans: and we here deliver,
What gold and jewels she is furnish'd with,
But nakedness, thou detestable town!
O, burn her, burn her! hanging is too good.
From princes into pages: all men's honours
Welcome, pure wit! thou partest a fair fray.
Up to his pleasure, ransomless and free:
'But for mine own part, my lord, I could be well
Go, bid thy master rise and come to me
More worth than any man; men, that she is
And that the queen's kindred are made gentle-folks:
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, POLONIUS, OPHELIA, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN
'Tis not the trial of a woman's war,
The deep-revolving witty Buckingham
'Twas but a bolt of nothing, shot at nothing,
to sea again. Let's be revenged on him: let's
We come to speak with him. Ulysses, enter you.
Such men as he be never at heart's ease
To Mantua, with my letters to thy lord.
O, true-bred!
But for my brother not a man would speak,
But now the arbitrator of despairs,
That without desert have frown'd on me;
For well you know we of the offering side
O princely Buckingham I'll kiss thy hand,
Than by destruction dwell in doubtful joy.
I view the fight than thou that makest the fray.
I pray you, have in mind where we must meet.
How so, sir? Did she change her determination?
Exit
Could not again undo: it was mine art,
For if thou path, thy native semblance on,
The lazy time, if not with some delight?
And I in such a poverty of grace,
I doubt not but with honour to redress;
The whole world shall not save him.
To weep 'twixt clock and clock? if sleep
ACT III
Doth burn the heart to cinders where it is.
Now it is the time of night
I rather do beseech you pardon me,
My most dread sovereign, may it like your grace
Go levy men, and make prepare for war;
Though age from folly could not give me freedom,
Enter CLIFFORD and YOUNG CLIFFORD
thousands in a trice: you have no true debitor and
Why, how should she be murder'd?
For you, great king,
Yea, all my raiment, to my petticoat;
My patience here is touch'd. I do perceive
For you, Prince Bassianus, I have pass'd
We are to speak in public; for this business
That such a slave as this should wear a sword,
If you bethink yourself of any crime
So then the Volsces stand but as at first,
never tire.
Is gone to meet the king, who lately landed
What, are they in this pit? O wondrous thing!
Let me ask my sister pardon. I am so out of love
'Tis won as towns with fire, so won, so lost.
Controlling majesty: alack, alack, for woe,
That bids me be of comfort any more.
Interpretation will misquote our looks,
De nails. Ecoutez; dites-moi, si je parle bien: de
good moon-calf.
Would we had spoke together! Haste we for it:
Me of my lawful pleasure she restrain'd
Flies after BIANCA
And stir them up against a mightier task.
Which Lion vile with bloody mouth did stain.
state, which since his coming forth is thought
I would he loved his wife: if he were honester
I am the best of them that speak this speech,
And wear my dagger with the braver grace,
So frown'd he once, when, in an angry parle,
The importancy of Cyprus to the Turk,
My master calls me, I must not say no.
Royal cheer, I warrant you.
Whom thou lovest best: see thou dissemble not.
Nay, I hear nothing: his mother and his wife
Then must the Jew be merciful.
And I have thrust myself into this maze,
Cry woe, destruction, ruin and decay:
Enter Chamberlain
Then up he rose, and donn'd his clothes,
Therefore I beat thee.
The heaven sets spies upon us, will not have
desires, and fairies will not pinse you.
Is done unto thy hand: the last she spake
Very ill.
Enter OSWALD
How chance my daughter is not with you? Do not
Not in this heat, sir, now.
I come to tender it and my appliance
Than when I parted hence, but still subsisting
So speaking as I think, I die, I die.
And see him dress'd in all suits like a lady:
Have made it tedious, wearisome, and heavy
My lord, these faults are easy, quickly answered:
Which if they have as I will leave 'em them,
'Nay,' said I, 'he hath the tongues:' 'That I
Most choice, forsaken; and most loved, despised!
Copp'd hills towards heaven, to tell the earth is throng'd
Sister, you'll go with us?
Piece out our imperfections with your thoughts;
Himself: what say'st thou to him?
Giving full trophy, signal and ostent
Drum within
So they are;
That they of Rome are entered in our counsels
With bootless labour swim against the tide
Whose loves I may not drop, but wail his fall
To draw with idle spiders' strings
Can clear me in't.
Take thy face hence.
Exeunt
Self-love, my liege, is not so vile a sin
Before you serve.
Vailing her high-top lower than her ribs
Exit, with PAROLLES guarded. A short alarum within
I do conceive.
News, my good lord, from Rome.
Coupled in bonds of perpetuity,
Go, Peto, to horse, to horse; for thou and I have
Alarum continues
Come away, come away, death,
First, of my word; therefore play, music. Prince,
O Lord, sir! Thick, thick, spare not me.
Without some image of the affected merit.
These be the Christian husbands. I have a daughter;
O horror, horror, horror! Tongue nor heart
Past thought! What said she to you? Get more tapers:
Sweets to the sweet: farewell!
Thou shouldst desire to die, being miserable.
Truly, sir, to wear out their shoes, to get myself
And may it be that you have quite forgot
For bloody power to rush upon your peace.
People and senators, be not affrighted;
To this your son is mark'd, and die he must,
Come, come, you froward and unable worms!
Exit
He speak against me on the adverse side,
But that your royal pleasure must be done,
Which they themselves not feel; but, tasting it,
And self-reproving: bring his constant pleasure.
The quality of persons, and the time,
gar, it is a shallenge: I will cut his troat in dee
That a king's children should be so convey'd,
And yet salt water blinds them not so much
And so am I for Ganymede.
A hundred almshouses right well supplied;
Exit
But I con him no thanks for't, in the nature he
Stand we in good array; for they no doubt
May we not get access to her, my lord?
What is thy name? Is man so hateful to thee,
I dreamt last night of the three weird sisters:
That summons thee to heaven or to hell.
Hang them or stab them, drown them in a draught,
Put my sick cause into his hands that hates me?
a beggar: Cressida was a beggar. My lady is
Upon some book I love I'll pray for thee.
Is she not proud? doth she not count her blest,
'I have, upon especial cause,
I wonder how the king escaped our hands.
I have laid those sheets you bade me on the bed.
If I could temporize with my affection,
Why comest thou?
O, gentlemen, see, see! dead Henry's wounds
Succeeds in unknown fate.
So, let the ports be guarded: keep your duties,
To act her earthy and abhorr'd commands,
gear the sooner the better.
What are you then determined to do?
I'll make him glad to seem Vincentio,
They are, my liege;
Long sitting to determine poor men's causes
[Reading out of a scroll]
Pox on't, I'll not meddle with him.
you.
I shall have it.
Jack Rugby, he is dead already, if he be come.
Warwick and Clarence give me both your hands:
On pain of death, no person be so bold
Which he did give himself, I know not how,
My wife, sir, whom I detest before heaven and your honour,--
From love's weak childish bow she lives unharm'd.
Where you have never come, or sent it us
Noble Antony,
Is thine and my poor country's to command:
What, wilt thou kneel with me?
Counts it your weal he have his liberty.
Let's hear. O fie! the treble jars.
The elephant hath joints, but none for courtesy:
I call the gods to witness, I will choose
You great fellow,
Your oath, my lord, is vain and frivolous.
The Earl of Douglas is discomfited:
Therefore, as he is an ass, let him go.
spacious in the possession of dirt.
Her favour turns the fashion of the days,
And on it said a century of prayers,
Must be as boisterously maintain'd as gain'd;
And no conception nor no jealous toy
Which serves it in the office of a wall,
Bridget lost the handle of her fan, I took't upon
'Tis Nestor right. Now play him me, Patroclus,
You may partake of any thing we say:
Enter PISTOL, Hostess, NYM, BARDOLPH, and Boy
Well placed: there stands your friend for the
That if it would but apprehend some joy,
That can recover him.
To weaken and discredit our exposure,
Not I	what are you?
So it is.
Here, my lord.
On chaliced flowers that lies;
We cannot keep the town.
Hast moved us: what seest thou in our looks?
But what said Lady Bona to my marriage?
Exit ESCALUS
However they have writ the style of gods
And let the Christian go.
His little kingdom of a forced grave.
Enter ERPINGHAM
You do it her: and so, Sir John, farewell!
honourable parts, and are the governor of this place.
O, had the gods done so, I had not now
Our nation's terror and their bloody scourge!
And shut the gates for safety of ourselves;
by which means I saw whose purse was best in
From my remembrance. And, besides, the king
I will show myself highly fed and lowly taught: I
Give him allowance for the better man;
Hath not in nature's mystery more science
The brightest heaven of invention,
Were it not better,
When time shall call him home from banishment,
How one man eats into another's pride,
Simois,' I know you not, 'hic est Sigeia tellus,' I
Vex not his ghost: O, let him pass! he hates him much
Thought and affliction, passion, hell itself,
It would discredit the blest gods, proud man,
Bereft and gelded of his patrimony.
No,'tis to thyself.
Exeunt all but ANTONY
And you may marvel why I obscured myself,
Not I.
A meacock wretch can make the curstest shrew.
What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
I shame to hear thee speak. Ah, timorous wretch!
God witness with me, I have wept for thine.
Then, taking him from thence that is not there,
That same villain, Romeo.
and good plays prove the better by the help of good
But so it is, my haste doth call me hence,
Sir Toby, there you lie.
a carpenter?'
I might have told hereafter.
The flighty purpose never is o'ertook
Producing forth the cruel ministers
Pardon me, gracious lord;
SCENE XIV. The same. Another room.
One ever near thee: call for Enobarbus,
Within
And to thy state of darkness hie thee straight:
lost a ship.
I lost a couple, that 'twixt heaven and earth
Nor would I have him till I do deserve him;
By interims and conveying gusts we have heard
Then shall the realm of Albion
My everlasting doom of banishment.
Lay kissing in your arms, lord cardinal.
There is no end, no limit, measure, bound,
That I am Prospero and that very duke
Drink off this potion. Is thy union here?
Ay, so you serve us
My lord, I claim your gift, my due by promise,
Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord.
more of thy old body than I have done. Will they
Let me entreat you speak the former language.
I cannot truly say how I came here;
Which is not owed to you!
For I have made an offer to his majesty,
Then, in a friend, it is cold modesty.
With one appearing hair, that will not follow
Fled to his house amazed:
twenty what were good to be done, than be one of the
Then, dreadful trumpet, sound the general doom!
I am the drudge and toil in your delight,
They are inclined to do so.
Give dreadful note of preparation:
When it doth tax itself; as these black masks
Lovers, make moan:
Of the last monarchy,--see that you come
As much to you, good sister! Whither away?
My subjects for a pair of carved saints
Exeunt LEONATO and ANTONIO
So did I mine, to build upon a foolish woman's promise.
Till your strong hand shall help to give him strength
Why, one that rode to's execution, man,
together, and fast it fairly out: our cakes dough on
Re-enter QUEEN
I fear, the story of his anger. 'Tis so;
Of Helicanus would set on
For some must watch, while some must sleep:
Do my sighs stream. Sir, will you hear my suit?
But 'gainst your privacy
That so stood out against the holy church,
This to my cousin Scroop, and all the rest
The time of life: arming myself with patience
Thou and thy brother both shall buy this treason
May know if you remain upon this island;
For soldiers' pay in France, and never sent it?
And pluck nights from me, but not lend a morrow;
AEmilius, let the emperor give his pledges
To make me blest or cursed'st among men.
SCENE III. A room in LEONTES' palace.
And give some evening music to her ear.
Keep my need up, and faith is trodden down!
Eros,
The adventure of her person?
As breathed stags, ay, fleeter than the roe.
Exit
It is: and lo, where youthful Edward comes!
more of your matter before the King.
Neither call the giddiness of it in question, the
At the south entry: retire we to our chamber;
His very genius hath taken the infection of the device, man.
Which else would post until it had return'd
Sir, in this audience,
Deserved much less advancement.
Yet, if my lord will marry,--if you will, sir,
The more I have, for both are infinite.
'Tis true.
Famous in Caesar's praises, no whit less
SCENE I. Marseilles. A street.
Yes, it is already garrison'd.
I grant it: pray; but be not tedious,
And he a prince and ruler of the land:
Whither, if it please you, we may now withdraw us.
For my sake be comfortable; hold death awhile at
Sir Valentine, I care not for her, I;
And time hath worn us into slovenry:
But on, my liege; for very little pains
We kill the fowl of season: shall we serve heaven
And did he not, in his protectorship,
O the pernicious caitiff!
Where hearing should not latch them.
sped to-day. You'll remember your brother's excuse?
And summon him to-morrow to the Tower,
Sheep run not half so treacherous from the wolf,
Exit QUEEN GERTRUDE
What I command, I'll rack thee with old cramps,
By need and accident. What train?
I say 'silver sound,' because musicians sound for silver.
God turn their hearts! I never sought their malice--
Music
Some troops pursue the bloody-minded queen,
perjury; some, making the wars their bulwark, that
But value dwells not in particular will;
One step I have advanced thee; if thou dost
They clap the lubber Ajax on the shoulder,
And furthermore tell him, we desire to know of him,
No, not a creature enters in my house.
What should not then be spared. He is already
A child shall get a sire, if I fail not of my cunning.
Madam, I shall.
If want it be not that she is not he:
her with crying; for the ewe that will not hear her
To hear the sea-maid's music.
That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
That the Pannonians and Dalmatians for
Through which the fearful lovers are to whisper.
Respecting her that's gone. Besides, the gods
Let me have time and counsel for my cause:
Were but a feigned friend to our proceedings:
And more than carefully it us concerns
Sing still for Richard's soul. More will I do;
Will answer in mine honour.
Feeling so the loss,
But, by the forge that stithied Mars his helm,
men eat Timon, and he sees 'em not! It grieves me
Then well one more may fair Bianca have:
Or shall we play the wantons with our woes,
Larded with sweet flowers
I'll draw the curtain:
Might shake off fifty, looking in her eye:
and all the madness is, he cheers them up too.
To furnish thee to Belmont, to fair Portia.
SCENE I. Westminster Abbey.
Why?
What a Herod of Jewry is this! O wicked
distraction that they were to be known by garment,
Which beasts would cough at: thy palate then did deign
As is fair Margaret he be link'd in love.
The several parcels of his plate, his treasure,
good king's son.
And he's as like to do't as any man I can imagine.
the approach of day.
Ye white-limed walls! ye alehouse painted signs!
And now what rests but, in night's coverture,
Hath made thee hard in't. Why shouldst thou hate men?
Enter two or three Servants with a chest
if she be mated with an equal husband?
And makes it fearful and degenerate;
Canonized and worshipped as a saint,
When I desire it too.
wild-fowl than your lion living; and we ought to
As new into the world, strange, unacquainted:
A better ear. Menas, I did not think
nothing. Cleopatra, catching but the least noise of
I take no heed of thee; thou'rt an Athenian,
Upon thy doings: thousand escapes of wit
That's not so, sir: we are your enemies.
I do remember an apothecary,--
birth, beauty, good shape, discourse, manhood,
Warrants these words in princely courtesy.
With some men else, who think themselves as safe
To make them kings, the seed of Banquo kings!
so great, Hortensio, but we may blow our nails
Exit LUCIUS
offered her mine own, who is a dog as big as ten of
Will Caesar speak?
I'll have our Michael Cassio on the hip,
Irreparable is the loss, and patience
valiant Ajax to invite the most valorous Hector
O, that way madness lies; let me shun that;
There's little can be said in 't; 'tis against the
Then, if I have much love, I'll give you some.
These knights unto their several lodgings!
In the quick forge and working-house of thought,
Were but his picture left amongst you here,
Let but the commons hear this testament--
Study his bias leaves and makes his book thine eyes,
They'll talk of state; for every one doth so
behalf of the maid; for I knew the young count to be
Five hundred were but yesterday dubb'd knights:
Nay, I assure you, a peace concluded.
Do smilingly revolt; and who resist
have saved my life.'Zounds, I am afraid of this
some, of beguiling virgins with the broken seals of
With modest warrant.
She questionless with her sweet harmony
It shall go hard but I'll prove it by another.
And shall do:
Are stuck upon thee: volumes of report
To make oppression bitter, or ere this
I wonder how our princely father 'scaped,
Who, trimm'd in forms and visages of duty,
none but libertines delight in him; and the
With both the humours, I:
This week he hath been heavy, sour, sad,
together as they join wainscot; then one of you will
Raised only, that the weaker sort may wish
And in a dark and dankish vault at home
Sound all the lofty instruments of war,
Will conquer him! awake, and win the day!
So I do: what's the matter?
Such as he is, full of regard and honour.
But when to my good lord I prove untrue,
Which may to you, perhaps, seem much unsinew'd,
'Faith, for the worst is filthy; and would not hold
and more than that, he can speak French; and
When you have done, repair to Crosby Place.
I do not speak of flight, of fear, of death,
That reigns in galled eyes of weeping souls,
Let me live here ever;
To bring it into danger.
Save that we do the denunciation lack
Or else it would have gall'd his surly nature,
Come, let's away. My love, give me thy lips.
That scolds against the quality of flesh,
Near! why then, another time I'll hear thee:
Let me see your eyes;
indeed: I like not when a 'oman has a great peard;
Let us make ready straight.
I'll grace thee with that robbery, thy stol'n name
I'll catch it ere it come to ground:
But when he once attains the upmost round.
Is put unto the trust of Richard Gloucester,
is a better soldier than rashness. Tell him we
What say'st thou, man, before dead Henry's corse?
upon London-stone, I charge and command that, of the
Prepare her, wife, against this wedding-day.
This is strange. Who hath got the right Anne?
From Goneril his mistress salutations;
That he hath turn'd a heaven unto a hell!
As touching France, to give a greater sum
If zealous love should go in search of virtue,
transcends.
Where I have hope to see the nuptial
Via, goodman Dull! thou hast spoken no word all this while.
That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
This is strange: your father's in some passion
I warrant it is: and thy head stands so tickle on
His time of fearing death. Stoop, Romans, stoop,
To do this when I bade thee? Do it at once;
Villain, thy own hand yields thy death's instrument.
Nay, prithee, dispatch: the gentleman is half
That grows not in a fair consent with ours,
I'll take what winter from your lips, fair lady:
No more of that. I pray you, in your letters,
When it is all to nought; and his quails ever
And will he not come again?
fighting, and I must go up and down like a cock that
ends my catechism.
Ay, my good son.
By Jupiter, I had it from her arm.
forsworn his company hourly any time this two and
[Aside to CLARENCE]  Ay, good leave have you; for
To be disturb'd, would mad or man or beast:
What you command, that rests in me to do.
I kiss his conquering hand: tell him, I am prompt
And cannot lose your way.
This prince, the fair-betrothed of your daughter,
Alack, there lies more peril in thine eye
They vex me past my patience! Pray you, pass on:
My father and my uncle and myself
Then swear allegiance to his majesty,
Such aid as I can spare you shall command;
For our losses, his exchequer is too poor; for the
To things of sale a seller's praise belongs,
I thought my mother, and my brother York,
On capital treason; and, in thine attaint,
dare not swear thou lovest me; yet my blood begins to
Yea, like fair fruit in an unwholesome dish,
O, 'tis the sun that maketh all things shine.
Vow, alack, for youth unmeet,
And all at once, once more a happy farewell.
Begun to tell me what I am, but stopp'd
Is yet a maiden and an innocent hand,
And at my suit, sweet, pardon what is past.
As Humphrey, proved by reasons, to my liege.
For, well you know, this is a pitiful case.
Helenus. I think he went not forth to-day. That's Helenus.
Was ever king that joy'd an earthly throne,
Lie not a night from home; watch me like Argus:
Exit BELARIUS
His name, my lord, is Tyrrel.
Marry, that should you, if I were your mistress, or
cottages princes' palaces. It is a good divine that
What follows this?
tale in telling it, and deliver a plain message
By gar, with all my heart. He promise to bring me
Sir Hugh, persuade me not; I will make a Star-
Surprise me to the very brink of tears:
'Tis a hard bondage to become the wife
For he will live, and laugh at this hereafter.
but only my followers' base and ignominious
Dead art thou! Alack! my child is dead;
of voice? Is there no respect of place, persons, nor
Exit Servant
What's yet behind, that's meet you all should know.
And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord,
When peers thus knit, a kingdom ever stands.
You have little cause to say so.
And what said he?
Then God take mercy on brave Talbot's soul;
And cannot soon revolt and change your mind.
O, no; wherein Lord Talbot was o'erthrown:
When I have most need to employ a friend,
Troy, yet upon his basis, had been down,
One desperate grief cures with another's languish:
We have some haste, Leonato.
him at the bird-bolt. I pray you, how many hath he
the peace, if I see a sword out, my finger itches to
Fear not thou, man, thou shalt lose nothing here.
They are the books, the arts, the academes,
What but to speak of would offend again.
Exit
and so I shall catch the fly, your cousin, in the
Pushes him away
Yet neither conqueror nor conquered:
And think no more of this night's accidents
What say'st thou, boy? look in the lady's face.
They, knowing Dame Eleanor's aspiring humour,
And, to cut off all strife, here sit we down:
And study help for that which thou lament'st.
Exceeds man's might; that dwells with gods above.
He'll make demand of her, and spend that kiss
For if but once thou show me thy grey light,
Why then you must. But hear thee, Gratiano;
'Tis well blown, lads:
You stared upon me with ungentle looks;
When possibly I can, I will return.
At the port, lord, I'll give her to thy hand,
His brother-in-law, the foolish Mortimer;
Behold her well; I pray you, look upon her:
letter to you; I should have given't you to-day
Immediately he was upon his knee,
fit for your o'er-looking.
Could to no issue of true honour bring.
By gar, 'tis good; vell said.
That he's revengeful, and I know his sword
That speaks thy words again to do thee harm!
DON
She is,
But that is not the question: the question is
ANTIPHOLUS
cunning of it; I found it thrown in at the
He gave it to a commoner o' the camp,
Yet parted but the shadow with his hand.
Sons,
Lysander and myself will fly this place.
Exit Servant
Straight marry her: to this her mother's plot
Enter PAGE, FORD, MISTRESS PAGE, MISTRESS FORD, and SIR HUGH EVANS
You have fought together.
Why should he not?
Thy personal venture in the rebels' fight,
A kind of boy, a little scrubbed boy,
Canst thou so daff me? Thou hast kill'd my child:
Not utter'd by base sale of chapmen's tongues:
These should be hours for necessities,
Or my life imply her any danger?
For purchasing but trouble; the thanks I give
The weary way hath made you melancholy.
one.
Why, very well; I hope here be truths. He, sir,
With all her double vigour, art and nature,
All my sad captains; fill our bowls once more;
And spur my dull revenge! What is a man,
you, here comes my Rosalind.
A curse begin at very root on's heart,
deceive it,
And may our oaths well kept and prosperous be!
great cause of the night is lack of the sun; that
Some bring the murder'd body, some the murderers:
Which he hath left so shapeless and so rude.
Good morrow to the good Simonides.
No, my lord;
My love can give no place, bide no denay.
He was a scholar, and a ripe and good one;
cast ashore.
Free from our feasts and banquets bloody knives,
No, I serve not thy master.
My friend is dead; 'tis done at your request:
SCENE II. Blackheath.
all one, if he be but one knave. He lives not now
Therefore, good uncle, for my father's sake,
The envious load that lies upon his heart;
And make a riot on the gentle brow
That's by me wounded: both our remedies
Yet once again proclaim it publicly,
Ay, and the approbation of those that weep this
That hand shall burn in never-quenching fire
Whose icy current and compulsive course
Peace be with you!
I cannot strike at wretched kerns, whose arms
what she has to do, that she may not be raw in her
No, he hath simply the best wit of any handicraft
Her nine farrow; grease that's sweaten
turkey-cocks. God pless you, Aunchient Pistol! you
between yourself and him, he shall not exceed you
Than pity for mischance!
CASSIO: Good night, honest Iago.
O Lord, I cannot speak to him for weeping;
You tallow-face!
Lord Angelo hath to the public ear
stay behind
Yet hath Sir Proteus, for that's his name,
Noble philosopher, your company.
of pewter. But, Francis, darest thou be so valiant
Who 'twas that cut thy tongue and ravish'd thee.
He will do all in all as Hastings doth.
Upon a wooden coffin we attend,
Re-enter AEMILIA, with ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse and DROMIO of Syracuse
Enter FLAMINIUS.
Enter MARCUS
King'd of our fears, until our fears, resolved,
And he but naked, though lock'd up in steel
She now shall be my sister, not my wife.
The second and the third, nine, and some five;
Nay, when? strike now, or else the iron cools.
She does abuse our ears: to prison with her.
SCENE III. Field of battle betwixt Sandal Castle and Wakefield.
As thou shalt be, if thou didst kill this child.
to scratch. I must to the barber's, monsieur; for
I have thought upon it, it shall be so. Away, burn
I warrant thee.
Pray you, sir, who's his tailor?
O'erhang and jutty his confounded base,
Dinner, ho, dinner! Where's my knave? my fool?
Sir Smile, his neighbour: nay, there's comfort in't
Go to, sir; you weigh equally; a feather will turn
O, well did he become that lion's robe
Was this fair paper, this most goodly book,
The servants of the duke, and my lieutenant.
The English whisper together in council
Grew fat with feasting there.
Against these giddy loose suggestions:
Enter two Senators and a Messenger
Which they have often made against the senate,
Enter VIOLA, a Captain, and Sailors
By him that shall succeed.
Enter a Servant
Should not be utter'd feebly. It is held
Of credit infinite, highly beloved,
Is best to lodge: I will bespeak our diet,
be a reasonable man, grew so in love with the
Poor naked wretches, whereso'er you are,
both. I am the king; for so stands the comparison:
O, none of both but are of high desert:
Let them be hunted soundly. At this hour
Then may I set the world on wheels, when she can
[Aside to DONALBAIN]  Why do we hold our tongues,
At 'closes in the consequence,' at 'friend or so,'
What am I, sir! nay, what are you, sir? O immortal
Exit
Farewell, farewell! one kiss, and I'll descend.
My lord?
And yet you halt not.
Good Master Ford, be contented: you wrong yourself too much.
Light vanity, insatiate cormorant,
They're loving, well composed with gifts of nature,
Advise me where I may have such a ladder.
Who, holding in disdain the German women
They swore that you were well-nigh dead for me.
I tell thee truly, herald,
do you no harm to learn.
Authorized by her grandam. Shame itself!
Than to accomplish twenty golden crowns!
Where hast thou been, sister?
To eat those little darlings whom they loved.
A soldier, by the honour-giving hand
Who died and left a female heir,
Who? Silvia?
As I can take it with another herb,
Leave me with haste.
had a feigned letter of my master's
News, madam;
can do you little harm; you'll forswear this again.
What duty they do owe their lords and husbands.
Have by their brave instruction got upon me
Will serve to strangle thee, a rush will be a beam
with a kind of injunction drives me to these habits
thing; 'tis a lie, I am not ague-proof.
As fancy values them; but with true prayers
For God's sake, lords, convey my tristful queen;
As you, prince Paris, nothing but heavenly business
Excellent, madame!
That never may ill office, or fell jealousy,
To lie in cold obstruction and to rot;
Now, my good Lords of Salisbury and Warwick,
Pretty and witty; wild, and yet, too, gentle:
Faith, sir, he has led the drum before the English
No, uncle, I'll none: Adam's sons are my brethren;
If I unwittingly, or in my rage,
For more uneven and unwelcome news
Thou mayst, thou shalt; I will not go with thee:
We now present. Those that can pity, here
bull-calf. What a slave art thou, to hack thy sword
Was wrought by nature, not by vile offence,
Your knees to them, not arms, must help. Alack,
The which thou once didst bend against her breast,
Or look upon our Romans, whose remembrance
Than young Alcides, when he did redeem
Whistling to the air; which, but for vacancy,
Crave harbourage within your city walls.
Shall upon their children be.
Of none but him; and swears he was carried out, the
malice in my breath. Meeting two such wealsmen as
A gentleman.
With being nothing. Music do I hear?
Nay, let me have't; I long.
That of an hour's age doth hiss the speaker:
To find another that is like to thee,
To visit other places; and come down
I feel 't upon my bones.
Or the light loss of England for a friend:
and unbuttoning thee after supper and sleeping upon
Know, thou sad man, I am not Tamora;
Mistress Anne, and I would not break with her for
faults hid!
A proper jest, and never heard before,
Tantaene animis coelestibus irae?
Drew to defend him when he was beset:
Be what they will, I heartily forgive 'em:
And so, I pray you, tell him: furthermore,
SCENE I. The same. LYSANDER, DEMETRIUS, HELENA, and HERMIA
I know 'twill stir him strongly; yet I know
You are too cold; if you should need a pin,
He puts on sackcloth, and to sea. He bears
And turn them out of service. If they do this,--
Knew you not Pompey? Many a time and oft
FLORIZEL and AUTOLYCUS exchange garments
It beggar'd all description: she did lie
Between two blades, which bears the better temper:
I shall have my eight shillings I won of you at betting?
Beating him
Retires
Let him shun castles;
And Lapland sorcerers inhabit here.
And some few vanities that make him light;
And for the proffer of my lord your master,
Here, sirrah Grumio; knock, I say.
Strike in their numb'd and mortified bare arms
But there the duke was given to understand
'Twas where you woo'd the gentlewoman so well:
it!
Exeunt
Great shouts within and all cry 'The mean knight!'
He that will think to live till he be old,
That, hearing of her beauty and her wit,
'Warwick, revenge! brother, revenge my death!'
And his commission to employ those soldiers,
Alas, this is a child, a silly dwarf!
To what, my love, shall I compare thine eyne?
And would afford my speechless vizard half.
I have it ready for thee; here it is.
Are level now with men; the odds is gone,
Why, masters, my good friends, mine honest neighbours,
ignorant, call I the deer the princess killed a pricket.
A herald, ho, a herald!
Even in the lukewarm blood of Henry's heart.
First, I ask thee what they have done; thirdly, I
out. Well, I'll be revenged as I may.
And now, like Ajax Telamonius,
What are you?
For what he has he gives, what thinks he shows;
O thou that dost inhabit in my breast,
Hope is a lover's staff; walk hence with that
And betwixt them and my lord chamberlain;
Here, neighbour Horner, I drink to you in a cup of
I'll use you for my mirth, yea, for my laughter,
Thou dost deserve enough; and yet enough
Good Mistress Mary Accost,--
By day or night,
'Tis our hope, sir,
Your leave, sweet Cressid!
cudgel you.
And now he's there, past thought of human reason.
O, sir, we doubt it not.
Lest it should bite its master, and so prove,
For he is bound to sea and stays but for it.
broke open my lodge.
Her feet were much too dainty for such tread!
By Cheshu, he is an ass, as in the world: I will
Her father and myself, lawful espials,
With orange-tawny bill,
[Aside to SEBASTIAN]  I am right glad that he's so
If that the Dauphin there, thy princely son,
The bitter sentence of poor Clarence' death?
Devour up my discourse: which I observing,
Sweet Lord Longaville, rein thy tongue.
That you and I should meet upon such terms
DUMB SHOW.
Hangs one that gathers samphire, dreadful trade!
Poins!
But wherefore stay we? 'tis no time to talk.
With purple fountains issuing from your veins,
My lord of Orleans, and my lord high constable, you
O, you have lived in desolation here,
But wherefore do you droop? why look you sad?
more, but to the matter: my mother, you say,--
treasonable abuses!
As all think, for this business.
Rien puis? L'air et la feu.
By interception which they dream not of.
Dear general, I never gave you cause.
Dives that lived in purple; for there he is in his
what though? it will toast cheese, and it will
Should breed thy fellow. Friends, I owe more tears
So much uncurbable, her garboils, Caesar
Upon his party for the gain thereof:
And ship from thence to Flanders.
To every ticklish reader! set them down
DON
porridge after meat! I could live and die i' the
Of bragging horror: so shall inferior eyes,
That dost this habitation, where thou keep'st,
I also wish it to you. I think this honourable lord
I have retired me to a wasteful cock,
And I with tears do wash the blood away.
What means he now? Go ask him whither he goes.
he can resolve you.
Your Coriolanus
the fifth, if I.
bate thee a scruple.
But, soft! whom have we here?
Let me be privileged by my place and message,
The graces for his merits due,
That sees into the bottom of my grief?
shot, who disgraced, what terms the enemy stood on;
It is a quarrel most unnatural,
Why, by the verities on thee made good,
Trampling contemptuously on thy disdain.
This was the sport, my lord: when Publius shot,
Upon this spotted and inconstant man.
As thick as honeycomb, each pinch more stinging
Indeed! is't true?
For Fleance fled: men must not walk too late.
As our intents will need?
That she, that even but now was your best object,
And wounds the earth, if nothing else, with rage
The ring was never hers.
Exit
you, when I have held familiarity with fresher
Have wish'd the sleeping of this business; never desired
Are you not well?
my king and master; so much my office.
Ill-faced, worse bodied, shapeless everywhere;
a muzzle and enfranchised with a clog; therefore I
To paly ashes, thy eyes' windows fall,
make thine own self the conquest of thy fury: wert
Let my disclaiming from a purposed evil
What, the sword and the word! do you study them
Your fellow Tranio here, to save my life,
All gather to see them
Than out of anger can be uttered.
To-night we'll wander through the streets and note
No marvel, my lord, though it affrighted you;
Then, Buckingham, I do dismiss my powers.
No; I eat not lords.
If half thy outward graces had been placed
But as I come, I come for Lancaster.
For he's a spirit of persuasion, only
talkest thou nothing but of ladies?
bacons, on! What, ye knaves! young men must live.
Why, sir, I'll strike nothing: I pray you,--
speak what I know.
I must be ripp'd:--to pieces with me!--O,
So many days my ewes have been with young;
To put on yellow stockings and to frown
But must be look'd to speedily and strongly.
Can hold the mortise? What shall we hear of this?
Which, happily, foreknowing may avoid, O, speak!
Thy mantle good,
Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD IV, GLOUCESTER, HASTINGS, and Soldiers
Would tempt unto a close exploit of death?
That words seem'd buried in my sorrow's grave.
What news abroad?
Re-enter THURIO
Cesario, you do not keep promise with me.
Hold, ho! Lieutenant,--sir--Montano,--gentlemen,--
My surveyor is false; the o'er-great cardinal
I am a poor fellow, sir.
They told me that your name was Fontibell.
Sennet. Enter AGAMEMNON, NESTOR, ULYSSES, MENELAUS, and others
I am not bid for love; they flatter me:
'Madam,' and nothing else: so lords
To make a loathsome abject scorn of me:
To answer 'I'll not wed; I cannot love,
Therefore your best appointment make with speed;
Guard me, beseech ye.
Lay negligent and loose regard upon him:
So, sir.
promised me, as he is a gentleman and a soldier, he
Death may usurp on nature many hours,
Son Edward, she is fair and virtuous,
but that a wise burgher put in for them.
Is often laudable, to do good sometime
Kept in a dark house, visited by the priest,
Thersites!
Gently entwist; the female ivy so
Disbursed by my father in his wars.
Camillo has betray'd me;
I now begin with grief and shame to utter:
Let them assemble,
Faith, sir, few of any wit in such matters: as they
Go, gentle Marcus, to thy nephew Lucius;
But it straight starts you.
Thus sometimes hath the brightest day a cloud;
Whose eyes are on this sovereign lady fix'd,
the least a month; and he heartily prays some
The greater cantle of the world is lost
'Tis now struck twelve; get thee to bed, Francisco.
Or shall we cut away our hands, like thine?
And thou shalt have more
For treason is but trusted like the fox,
Make instruments to plague us:
if they suffer our departure, death's the word.
Of all the world I loved and to him put
She's dead, my queen:
alone, howsoever you speak this to feel other men's
That being dead, like to the bullet's grazing,
This chain which now you wear so openly:
And yours of Helena to me bequeath,
'Tis a good piece.
Now, Pompey, I have kept me from the cup.
Is this the king we sent to for his ransom?
There is a vice that most I do abhor,
Hence, pack! there's gold; you came for gold, ye slaves:
Cold friends to Richard: what do they in the north,
Make our eyes flow with joy, hearts dance
Which now the loving haste of these our friends,
And fearing he would rise, he was so virtuous,
when his wife was dead, I blush to say it, he won
It is the issue of Polixenes:
Good boatswain, have care. Where's the master?
any image of offence done to any man.
Benedick: nobody marks you.
[Reads]
The safety and health of this whole state;
His brother warr'd upon him; although, I think,
That, undividable, incorporate,
cousin to a good husband.
He kills her in her own humour.
I' the city of kites and crows! What an ass it is!
Confirm it so, mine honourable lord.
Not a flower, not a flower sweet
indeed! I ne'er made my will yet, I thank heaven; I
appears too grossly.
Myself in counsel, his competitor.
So that the ram that batters down the wall,
I have as much of this in art as you,
henceforth let a Welsh correction teach you a good
sides, like a leather jerkin.
benevolence to make atonements and compremises
To Juliet's grave; for there must I use thee.
belongs to reason; and canst use the time well, if
Tell him from his all-obeying breath I hear
And fearful to be granted.
So.
Money is a good soldier, sir, and will on.
And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses,
As if that name,
The villain would not stand me.
Certainly, sir, I can.
And Tybalt's dead, that would have slain my husband:
picture, she says, that you wot of: Master Ford,
Marrying a punk, my lord, is pressing to death,
You know now your hostages; your uncle's word and my
Marry, sir, our watch to-night, excepting your
O were the sum of these that I should pay
His brother here and put him to the sword:
O noble Caesar!
Ford, on whom to-night I will be revenged, and I
Why or for what these nobles were committed
Bliss be upon you! Tell me, good my friend,
March afar off
his shrift.
He knows himself my bed he hath defiled;
And make your bondmen tremble. Must I budge?
Whip me, ye devils,
And shall be absent. Wend you with this letter:
Master Hume, we are therefore provided: will her
great and trusty business in a main danger fail you.
As unrelenting flint to drops of rain.
Lie down, and stray no farther: now all labour
Wrath-kindled gentlemen, be ruled by me;
When she had fitted you with her craft, to work
As I required: and wot you what I found
the truth of his words; but they do no more adhere
Yet, I beseech you,
Even so. What are you?
Hark, Petruchio; she says she'll see thee
They have changed eyes. Delicate Ariel,
I take her hand.
courtesy would invent some other custom of
period of my ambition: O this blessed hour!
Thus he his special nothing ever prologues.
with the women. I charge you, O women, for the love
Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep;
If not already.
The slaughter of the prince that owed that crown,
Till twice five summers have enrich'd our fields
The Bull, being gall'd, gave Aries such a knock
Forswear themselves as often as they speak:
For, I profess, you have it.
I'll tell you largely of fair Hero's death:
but for the stuffing,--well, we are all mortal.
In vain thou speak'st, poor boy; my father's blood
Know, that to-morrow the last of many battles
No, sure, my lord, my mother cried; but then there
And now, instead of mounting barded steeds
Hold, Clifford! do not honour him so much
To LAVINIA
And her to incest did provoke:
And poison it in the source; and the first stone
that done, trudge with it in all haste, and carry
Whiles yet the dew's on ground, gather those flowers;
As calling home our exiled friends abroad
To give her princely training, that she may be
'Gainst him whose wrong gives edge unto the swords
Well, we will leave you then till dinner-time:
How he did shake: 'tis true, this god did shake;
With tears of innocency and terms of zeal,
For we have nothing else to ask, but that
For further life in this world I ne'er hope,
I wish't might fall on me, when I was found
Is done to cure it.
Can stead the quest. At last from Tyre,
Perchance some single vantages you took.
Quit presently the chapel, or resolve you
the loathed warmth whereof deliver me, and supply
Bid them have patience; she shall come anon.
That thus hath made me weep?
hair is my father, and all the rest are his sons.'
My liege, old Gaunt commends him to your majesty.
And hither shall he come: and he and I
Here will we sit and let the sounds of music
Of his profession, that his good receipt
Go take it hence; be gone, and say no more.
Fellow, wilt thou bestow thy time with me?
manner of your garments well.
Blushing to be encountered with a cloud.
Treason has done his worst: nor steel, nor poison,
As strange as the thing I know not. It were as
To RICHMOND
Why, sir, a carpenter.
He would not take it. Never did I know
All our abilities, gifts, natures, shapes,
Go to thy death-bed:
We cannot live on grass, on berries, water,
For he hath heard of our confederacy,
Valuing of her,--why, she, O, she is fallen
Do you love me, master? no?
To feast with me and see me at my tent.
According as I gave directions?
Worthy the owner, and the owner it.
Not seeing what is likely to ensue.
Speak then to me, who neither beg nor fear
An earnest advocate to plead for him.
For your conversion. Now your traveller,
But to rejoice in splendor of mine own.
Justice to break her sword! One more, one more.
Could not so mope.
He was the first that ever bore arms.
The violets, cowslips, and the primroses,
The one by the other.
He gave the stablishment of Egypt; made her
Now, messenger, what letters or what news
Ye have found him, cardinal:
Thanks, fortune, yet, that, after all my crosses,
I hope you will consider what is spoke
point, so to the full arming of the verity.
We'll say our song the whilst. Brother, begin.
Ay, good my lord.
excellent perfume.
Hadst thou in person ne'er offended me,
To have it baned? What, are you answer'd yet?
That I extend my manners; 'tis my breeding
To bring but five and twenty: to no more
Fine, i'faith!
How quickly should you speed!
in France, Before--
'Ninus' tomb,' man: why, you must not speak that
Re-enter BIONDELLO
Is valour misbegot and came into the world
Your wisdom in the deed.
What, ho! chamberlain!
Against whom comest thou? and what's thy quarrel?
and as I told you, my young lady bade me inquire you
My duty kneeling, came there a reeking post,
They could not speak; and so I left them both,
Sound drums and trumpets, and to London all:
To mark me for his friend; yet, I protest,
Well, my lord.
But is this Hector?
Ay me, poor man, how pale and wan he looks!
And does he send to me? Three? hum!
My lord, that would dishonour him.
hand, Menas: if our eyes had authority, here they
or end: well, Troilus, well: I would my heart were
Now shall my friend Petruchio do me grace,
Make wells and Niobes of the maids and wives,
He hath no eyes, the dust hath blinded them.
Good morrow, Benedick. Why, what's the matter,
Enjoy mine own, the country Maine and Anjou,
I am not Samson, nor Sir Guy, nor Colbrand,
Do they still fly to the Roman?
Stoop with oppression of their prodigal weight:
Clifford, devise excuses for thy faults.
Good night, good Captain Blunt. Come gentlemen,
Exeunt
shelter hereabouts: misery acquaints a man with
For breathing and exploit.
As thou
Good Kate; I am a gentleman.
The sweet war-man is dead and rotten; sweet chucks,
And it appears he is beloved of those
Hector would have them fall upon him thus:
Wouldst have me weep? why, now thou hast thy will:
That thus so madly thou didst answer me?
SCENE II. The sea-coast.
Ah, my young princes! ah, my tender babes!
On her ingrateful top! Strike her young bones,
The lass I spoke of.
married of him than of another: for he is not like
Against my will I am sent to bid you come in to dinner.
With surety stronger than Achilles' arm
Enter LEONTES, ANTIGONUS, Lords, and Servants
The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee,
O, good sir, tenderly, O!
Thou wretch, despite o'erwhelm thee!
Is of that nature that to your huge store
To Bolingbroke are we sworn subjects now,
Enter another Citizen
We still have judgment here; that we but teach
To drive away the heavy thought of care?
My lord, she's not paced yet: you must take some
He never did harm, that I heard of.
excellent voice, in this little organ; yet cannot
Who was last with them?
Found it too precious-princely for a grave.
Give me thy hand: thou shalt have a share in our
I do present you with a man of mine,
Have holp to make this rescue?
But I can tell that in each grace of these
I'll fa you; do you note me?
Both fill'd and running, ravening first the lamb
'Tis in grain, sir; 'twill endure wind and weather.
And rapt in secret studies. Thy false uncle--
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, AGRIPPA, DOLABELLA, MECAENAS, GALLUS, PROCULEIUS, and others, his council of war
And throw between them all the food thou hast,
fear the report of a caliver worse than a struck
were sensible as your finger, that you might leave
And a thousand vagram posies.
She shall be, to the happiness of England,
Let him be brought into the orchard here.
What had he done, to make him fly the land?
Perchance light in the light. I desire her name.
Do, do.
And, Rivers, so were you. Was not your husband
they'll have me whipped for speaking true, thou'lt
My forces and my power of men are yours:
How if fair and foolish?
Knock you here, sir! why, sir, what am I, sir, that
Will you be patient? will you stay awhile?
Exeunt
draw as soon as another man, if I see occasion in a
By a beloved prince, there doth appear
Exit PHILOSTRATE
Submitting me unto the perilous night,
Ba, most silly sheep with a horn. You hear his learning.
For now I spy a danger,--I entreat you
For, daughter, so you are,--here take your place:
And, Launcelot, soon at supper shalt thou see
Indeed, he is so: I repent me much
For no ill will I bear you.
Much less shall she that hath Love's wings to fly,
As he hath spices of them all, not all,
name, Master tapster?
skin that was killed for the Prodigal; he that came
But cloaks and gowns, before this day, a many.
I have a journey, sir, shortly to go;
Quite from their fixure! O, when degree is shaked,
The flower of Europe for his chivalry;
as you would say, a cobbler.
to see Caesar and to rejoice in his triumph.
Further than seen and one infect another
Nay, for a need, thus far come near my person:
I leave your highness. Grandam, I will pray,
I beseech you, punish me not with your hard
words; and therefore I will say nothing: I thank
And our oppression hath made up this league.
And solemnly see him set on to London.
impudency, learned without opinion, and strange with-
War with good counsel, set the world at nought;
Patience is for poltroons, such as he:
And lasting fealty to the new-made king.
Because their business still lies out o' door.
witnesses: bear it coldly but till midnight, and
Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,
Where is the duke my father with his power?
my master.
As Jove himself does, Jove would ne'er be quiet,
as it hath breadth: it is just so high as it is,
When I have said, make answer to us both.
I told you yesternight: there's a franklin in the
Exeunt
And will you credit this base drudge's words,
Thou fellow, a word:
Save bidding farewell to so sweet a guest
wholesome, we might guess they relieved us humanely;
From simple sources, and great seas have dried
Now, princes, for the service I have done you,
Re-enter KING. BERTRAM and PAROLLES retire
For my part, I am sorry it is turned to a drinking.
O, I am out of breath in this fond chase!
Giving her DESDEMONA's handkerchief
Knocks
The canker galls the infants of the spring,
What canst thou swear by now?
And 'Honi soit qui mal y pense' write
Tremble, like aspen-leaves, upon a lute,
And held in idle price to haunt assemblies
Better far off than near, be ne'er the near.
And when came you to serve our Roman captive?
And all the more it seeks to hide itself,
his right wits and his good judgments, turned away
You have my father's house,--But, what? we are friends.
That in this quarrel have been overthrown
Ancient, conduct them: you best know the place.
Stab poniards in our flesh till all were told,
ANTIPHOLUS
For this affair. Some four or five attend him;
And here I will expect thy coming.
It is Posthumus' hand; I know't. Sirrah, if thou
To love the Moor.
Sir, I entreat you home with me to dinner.
She is indeed perfection.
And fighting foot to foot.
Two creatures heartily.
I see these witches are afraid of swords.
Enter HASTINGS
I tell you, sir, she bears me fair in hand.
They found the bed untreasured of their mistress.
Shall make it live again. Woo't thou fight well?
My lord, you played once i' the university, you say?
That policy may either last so long,
thankful should be,
His brother and yours, abide all three distracted
I love thee best, O most best, believe it. Adieu.
All's well.
Too well, too well thou tell'st a tale so ill.
Nor ne'er wed woman, if you be not she.
Your son and daughter.
And if thine eyes can water for his death,
My conscience bids me ask--wherefore you have
Were they as prime as goats, as hot as monkeys,
I pray thee, gentle mortal, sing again:
Both countenance and excuse. Ho, Guildenstern!
To tie thee to my strong correction.
For death-like dragons here affright thee hard:
Without, my noble lords?
And sinks most lamentably. Had our general
And with our swords, upon a pile of wood,
Exit CROMWELL
I cannot blame him: was not he proclaim'd
Secure of thunder's crack or lightning flash;
Did gibe my missive out of audience.
I did not well I meant well. All my services
prison. There's but a shirt and a half in all my
inclination of the people, especially of the younger sort?
I thank his grace, I know he loves me well;
Young, valiant, wise, and, no doubt, right royal,
He is in Rome.
Enclosed were they with their enemies:
And Henry, though he be infortunate,
Though 'tis no wisdom to confess so much
Exit
'Ban, 'Ban, Cacaliban
To our proceeding bids me tell you this;
But our new heraldry is hands, not hearts.
Flat burglary as ever was committed.
Welcome hither:
Great men may jest with saints; 'tis wit in them,
He hath got his friend with child.
Thou hast harp'd my fear aright: but one
In top of all design, my mate in empire,
Thou blushest, Antony; and that blood of thine
That rounds the mortal temples of a king
Demanding of King Henry's life and death,
me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours.
her degree, neither in estate, years, nor wit; I
I am no pilot; yet, wert thou as far
inexplicable dumbshows and noise: I would have such
fear who knows it, when none can call our power to
To FLORIZEL
most cruel death of Pyramus and Thisby.
[Aside to DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS]  Why, Enobarbus,
Two faults, madonna, that drink and good counsel
'tis a subject for a sovereign to reason on, and for
And manifest experience had collected
And he shall wear his crown by sea and land,
Spaniard's mouth so watered, that he went to bed to
morning your departure hence, it requires haste of
We do not throw in unrespective sieve,
This is the brief of money, plate, and jewels,
By my valour, the most complete champion that ever I
strong a liking with old Sir Rowland's youngest son?
Would try him to the utmost, had ye mean;
Exeunt
This is strange now: do you two know how you are
And thus she means, videlicet:--
And in my voice most welcome shall you be.
To the last syllable of recorded time,
Gone already!
How say you? O, I should remember him: does he not
Cannot a plain man live and think no harm,
Well, may you see things well done there: adieu!
John. A strange fish! Were I in England now,
Ay, a token from Troilus.
In courtly company or at my beads,
To their deaf pillows will discharge their secrets:
But, ere they live, to end.
My lord, there needs no such apology:
let no man take care for himself; for all is
He is then a giant to an ape; but then is an ape a
Nay then, no matter; stay with me awhile;
Anjou and Maine are given to the French;
Since you set up your rest 'gainst remedy.
What may the king's whole battle reach unto?
Good sir, why do you start; and seem to fear
Hath puddled his clear spirit: and in such cases
And yet dark night strangles the travelling lamp:
goose: but all's brave that youth mounts and folly
most coldest that ever turned up ace.
for this drivelling love is like a great natural,
Even from Hyperion's rising in the east
I swear he is true--hearted; and a soul
I will assume thy part in some disguise
Weep not, sweet queen; for trickling tears are vain.
To keep the horsemen off from breaking in.
untie. Here comes Patroclus.
Re-enter OTHELLO
Now, unto thy bones good night!
Fall on their heads like dew! for they are worthy
Thou art proud, Apemantus.
No cause!
And live alone as secret as I may.
Well, proceed.
Show his eyes, and grieve his heart;
You see how he intends to use the people.
Now Lord be thanked for my good amends!
And from your sacred vials pour your graces
Help me hence, ho!
Savagely slaughter'd: to relate the manner,
as it were, a dog at all things. If I had not had
I never gave him any:
Which wash both heaven and hell; and thou, that hast
she will: and truly she deserves it; for if there
Exit
And thy fair virtue's force perforce doth move me
as they buy hob-nails, by the hundreds.
The sum is paid; the traitors are agreed;
O, whither hast thou led me, Egypt? See,
These sovereign thrones, are all supplied, and fill'd
He dies upon my scimitar's sharp point
That slightly shakes his parting guest by the hand,
Exit Stephano
Feeds on his wonder, keeps himself in clouds,
Hark what thou else shalt do me.
Enter LADY PERCY
thee, Hal, I knew nothing; and now am I, if a man
Search the market narrowly; Mytilene is full of
For government, though high and low and lower,
O, quick, or I am gone.
It's past the size of dreaming: nature wants stuff
only in Patient stillness while his rider mounts
I love thee. Help me away. Let me creep in here.
But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?
Exit
Even with the same austerity and garb
Galen is but empiricutic, and, to this preservative,
All thin and naked, to the numb cold night?
Save what beats there. Filial ingratitude!
Are cast away and sunk on Goodwin Sands.
age, my very prop.
be out of all compass, out of all reasonable
Was to send him; for whose old love I have,
'One fair daughter and no more,
His foot Mercurial; his Martial thigh;
That you shall be new-christen'd in the Tower.
Be used more thankfully. In himself, 'tis much;
Why, for my king: tush, that's a wooden thing!
Enter POLONIUS
Shall not be wink'd at, how shall we stretch our eye
O, wilt thou darkling leave me? do not so.
Until my eyelids will no longer wag.
Alas! dear love, I cannot lack thee two hours.
good a commander with so slight, so drunken, and so
ANTIPHOLUS
three half pence. Nym and Bardolph are sworn
Rather than purchased; what he cannot change,
but from proof as strong as my grief and as certain
No, believe me, 'tis very cold; the wind is
Let him approach.
But thou dost swear only to be forsworn;
shall be lopped branches, which, being dead many
The more thou damm'st it up, the more it burns.
Must we pursue, and I have found the path.
Who makest a show but darest not strike, thy conscience
Wind, rain, and thunder, remember, earthly man
No wars without doors: Caesar gets money where
thy face: and all this done, spurn her home to her
And therefore, in mine opinion, cannot have it:
would change places with his officer; for, look you,
As doth a battle, when they charge on heaps
And all the courses of my life do show
'Tis much when sceptres are in children's hands;
And one Deformed is one of them: I know him; a'
will keep the house.
Yes, my lord, if it please your grace.
Sir, have pity;
Though women all above:
As you have said, my lord.
Well, 'tis done:
Herself most chastely absent: after this,
Via! les eaux et la terre.
When I shall tread upon the tyrant's head,
One eye thou hast, to look to heaven for grace:
And rob in the behalf of charity.
'Tis an unseason'd courtier; good my lord,
May she give that?
Sconce call you it? so you would leave battering, I
I see this hath a little dash'd your spirits.
But if thy love were ever like to mine--
There to dispose this treasure in mine arms,
than the master: if any where I have them, 'tis by
Exeunt
His heart as far from fraud as heaven from earth.
O Caesar, what a wounding shame is this,
Slew three opposers: Tarquin's self he met,
Absolute madness could so far have raved
I know no touch of it, my lord.
Then leave him out.
With lesser weight but not with lesser woe,
That villain cousin would have kill'd my husband:
Upon a heap a hundred ghastly women,
Give me that mattock and the wrenching iron.
Since I am put to know that your own science
Till thou the lie-giver and that lie do lie
We were dissever'd: hastily lead away.
Hang him, Jack! Come, we'll in here; tarry for the
themselves have provided that I shall have much help
More spongy to suck in the sense of fear,
Heaven give your spirits comfort!
Long live King Henry! Plantagenet embrace him.
Because you talk of wooing, I will sing;
'Tis true: there's magic in the web of it:
Go bind this man, for he is frantic too.
Enter MARK ANTONY, CLEOPATRA, DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS, CHARMIAN, IRAS, ALEXAS, with others
When as the enemy hath been ten to one:
Himself with his good arms in lusty stroke
ACT I
I'll fight with none but thee; for I do hate thee
Be comforted:
good piece of flesh indeed! Learn of the wise, and
You must, sir, change persons with me, ere you make
Be gone to-morrow; and be sure of this,
be a flattering honest man, it must not be denied
The which he lacks; that to provoke in him,
Another ring, that what in time proceeds
And with a virtuous vizard hide foul guile!
Mistress Ford: we will thrive, lads, we will thrive.
Well, I promised you a dinner. Come, come, walk in
And pull'd the law upon you.
O my accursed womb, the bed of death!
Three thousand ducats for three months and Antonio bound.
Their money out of hope they may believe,
Who was the first of Britain which did put
Grievingly I think,
They are but beggars that can count their worth;
And do as adversaries do in law,
Unless thou tell'st me where thou hadst this ring,
Unto Southampton do we shift our scene.
So lust, though to a radiant angel link'd,
Broke oath on oath, committed wrong on wrong,
For what is he they follow?  truly, gentlemen,
Of all these learned men she was divorced,
Why good fellow,
About a certain question in the law
Then, good my mother, let me know my father;
man counts of her beauty.
More noble than that runagate to your bed,
And subjects none abroad: pray you, look in.
What, what? his choler?
To leave a thousand-fold more bitter than
And fearful, as these strange eruptions are.
is the base, though bitter, disposition of Beatrice
horse in Padua to begin his wooing that would
Those twins Of learning that he raised in you,
made me businesses which none without thee can
supplication?
I'll give you something else.
she? We are simple men; we do not know what's
And you as well to keep her, that defend her,
Enter HAMLET and HORATIO
Return and tell him so: we know the worst.
your eyes as other women do.
Rosalind of a better leer than you.
being, as he is, old Jack Falstaff, banish not him
My father and Lavinia shall forthwith
Like to a duchess, and Duke Humphrey's lady;
With a new Gorgon: do not bid me speak;
Old fashions please me best; I am not so nice,
Becomes a warlike people, whom we reckon
The abuse of distance; force a play:
Pray you now, forget and forgive: I am old and foolish.
Oh, if you love my brother, hate not me;
and vengeance for't
tree, understand a plain man in his plain meaning:
Re-enter LAFEU, with HELENA
Draw; seem to defend yourself; now quit you well.
Enter BASSIANUS and LAVINIA
Order the trial, marshal, and begin.
Is heavy in my tongue. The king your father--
third--borough.
Amidst the other; whose medicinable eye
Dost thou hear, Hal? never call a true piece of
Do sorely ruffle; for many miles a bout
For scorn at first makes after-love the more.
[Unmasking]  I answer to that name. What is your will?
Sings
I am surprised with an uncouth fear;
Muddy, ill-seeming, thick, bereft of beauty;
Since I heard thence; these are the words: I think
I was forbid it.
I sit at ten pounds a week.
And they are all about his majesty.
In peace there's nothing so becomes a man
lie with his wife. Come to me soon at night.
The secret whispers of each other's watch:
Alarum. Enter YORK, EDWARD, RICHARD, NORFOLK, MONTAGUE, WARWICK, and Soldiers
Thou shalt be both the plaintiff and the judge
Cham's beard, do you any embassage to the Pigmies,
have some plaster, or some loam, or some rough-cast
That I should open to the listening air
No, he must not.
In her consists my happiness and thine;
More than they were in note: amongst the rest,
am glad to hear it.
'Tis time to speak; my pains are quite forgot.
And yet, I warrant, it had upon its brow
Divided in their dire division,
Whereof I shall not have intelligence.
All that was mine in Silvia I give thee.
proclamation; but he made a groan at it, and swore
What, wilt thou on thy death-bed play the ruffian,
Our hap is loss, our hope but sad despair;
Will you be so good, scauld knave, as eat it?
Have I not reason to look pale and dead?
The rank of osiers by the murmuring stream
again: but, as they say to hear music the general
How now, my eyas-musket! what news with you?
And Don Armado shall be your keeper.
You have your wish; my will is even this:
Stand ranks of people, and they cry 'A sail!'
But here's a vengeful sword, rusted with ease,
Heat them and they retort that heat again
Consent to marry with Demetrius,
Clock heard
No, I'll not go: you hear what he hath said
Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
O you panderly rascals! there's a knot, a ging, a
Stand!
Though he divide the realm and give thee half,
Good morrow, Richmond!
the name of good by his government. How far is his
He's discontented.
Were I like thee, I'ld throw away myself.
Because you talk of pride now,--will you not be angry?
Your grace is grown so pleasant.
As here by Caesar, and by you cut off,
So did our looks.
Have torn their souls by turning them from us,
O, you, my lord? by Mars his gauntlet, thanks!
quality that it is but a shadow's shadow.
Parolles, was it not?
Let us survey the vantage of the field
Not worshipp'd with a waxen epitaph.
one of my friends.
conceits shall govern.
I thank it. More, I prithee, more. I can suck
Exit
The dropsy drown this fool I what do you mean
He that unbuckles this, till we do please
Return him here again. Go with him, provost.
Ay, 'tis strong, and it does indifferent well in a
He searcheth his pockets, and findeth certain papers
As I can change these poor accoutrements,
Me they concern; Regent I am of France.
Great God of heaven, say Amen to all!
We'll learn our freeness of a son-in-law;
And threw it towards thy land: the sea received it,
I am the cygnet to this pale faint swan,
And if I die to-morrow, this is hers,
Before you hazard; for, in choosing wrong,
Freely command, thou wouldst have plunged thyself
And interjoin their issues. So with me:
Nor will he know his purse, or yield me this,
With thy most operant poison! What is here?
O sweet Revenge, now do I come to thee;
Thy noble shape is but a form of wax,
He climbs the wall, and leaps down within it
Signior Antonio!
Go sound the ocean, and cast your nets;
See how the giddy multitude do point,
acquaintance too. Your name, I beseech you, sir?
Will leap to be his friend: for us, you know,
I tell you, madam, were the whole frame here,
The willing'st sin I ever yet committed
No; many a pound of mine own proper store,
the women: but, for my part, she is my kinswoman; I
For love of you, not hate unto my friend,
So angle we for Beatrice; who even now
Enter ACHILLES
Stay, then; I'll go alone. Fear comes upon me:
I pray thee, give it me.
If on the first, how heinous e'er it be,
The children thus disposed, my wife and I,
They swore that you were almost sick for me.
Strato, thou hast been all this while asleep;
[To GUIDERIUS and ARVIRAGUS]  Though you did love
Therefore, Timon,--
Ay, for a turtle, as he takes a buzzard.
shalt woo her. Cried I aim? said I well?
Warlike and martial Talbot, Burgundy
Hold, hold; meanwhile here's money for thy charges.
To lip a wanton in a secure couch,
know this to be true; therefore prepare yourself to
And could it work so much upon your shape
Which of the vizards was it that you wore?
I have sweat to see his honour. My honoured lord,--
But now I see our lances are but straws,
Exeunt
Strikes him
Is, that he was the lord ambassador
And see him seated in the regal throne.
And mercy then will breathe within your lips,
And so, good Capulet,--which name I tender
[To SICINIUS]  You shall stay too: I would I had the power
And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts;
Good things will strive to dwell with't.
being proud?
I give it you.
To prison, till fit time
You weary those that refresh us: pray, let's see
Exeunt CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and TRINCULO
To the Queen
Pale trembling coward, there I throw my gage,
Not this hour, lieutenant; 'tis not yet ten o' the
Pleasure and action make the hours seem short.
Not a frown further. Go release them, Ariel:
What's your Will?
If in his grave he rest, we'll find him there;
A woman that Lord Brutus took to wife:
Of Caesar seek your honour, with your safety. O!
The evil that thou causest to be done,
To death, or to a vow of single life.
Even in condition of the worst degree,
I pluck this white rose with Plantagenet.
If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
So is he mine; and in such bloody distance,
Who, having no external thing to lose
And falling from a hill, he was so bruised
Yes, I have gained my experience.
No matter, then, who see it;
Rather, lost more. And by this hand I swear,
SCENE I. Westminster Hall.
I am to thank you for 't.
For that I have laid by my majesty
At your den, sirrah, with your lioness
And you, sir, to outlive the age I am,
I see before me, man: nor here, nor here,
Yonder is a most reverend gentleman, who, belike
What, are you mad, that you do reason so?
That every eye which in this forest looks
So shalt thou sinew both these lands together;
Or any air of music touch their ears,
One day shall crown the alliance on't, so please you,
Master, master, look about you: who goes there, ha?
Thou, now a-dying, say'st thou flatterest me.
Madam Silvia! Madam Silvia!
They offer to bind Dromio of Ephesus
Than violentest contrariety.
man. What a woman are you!--Away with him, away
The time seems long; their blood
Shamed their aspect with store of childish drops:
Pinch them, arms, legs, backs, shoulders, sides and shins.
Fit thy consent to my sharp appetite;
How to prevent the fiend, and to kill vermin.
As lamely as their manners. Lust and liberty
there's not a nose among twenty but can smell him
If ever,--as that ever may be near,--
If your grace
The more she gives them speech. Where do you live?
This is the ape of form, monsieur the nice,
Thou hast power to choose, and they none to forsake.
Sir, I have brought my lord the archbishop,
Here's one comes in his shirt, with light and weapons.
My heart beats thicker than a feverous pulse;
The garter, blemish'd, pawn'd his knightly virtue;
A master-leaver and a fugitive:
Thou art my heir; the rest I wish thee gather:
The kingly-crowned head, the vigilant eye,
business, and I will merrily accompany you home.
My liege, I'll knock once more to summon them.
Which must approve thee honest: 'If Pisanio
For I have more to commune with Bianca.
Let us all ring fancy's knell
Such eyes the widows in Corioli wear,
Enter CHARLES, ALENCON, BURGUNDY, BASTARD OF ORLEANS, JOAN LA PUCELLE, and forces
Good madam, keep yourself within yourself:
Is growing to me by Antipholus,
Arise, arise.
Sirrah, I will not bear these braves of thine.
Will't please you eat? will't please your
Traitors, away! he rests not in this tomb:
That so his sickness, age and impotence
for I was come to the whole depth of my tale; and
Good Master Vernon, it is well objected:
His coming hither hath no further scope
Th' other's not come to't; you shall tell me another
And made Verona's ancient citizens
Richard of York! how fares our loving brother?
should speak truly, little better than one of the
Let them affright thee. I beseech thee, youth,
Methinks there is much reason in his sayings.
I am out of all other tune, methinks.
Shall he dwindle, peak and pine:
Did make my way long forth.
Of celebration of that nuptial which
Behold her that gave aim to all thy oaths,
Sooth, but you must.
And happily I have arrived at the last
No matter what; he's poor, and that's revenge
The common people by numbers swarm to us.
a-work, and how ill requited! why should our
had rather:' your husband's here at hand, bethink
Shall be to me even as the dew to fire,
From whence you spring by lineal descent.
Great Hector was a man as good as he.
implore secrecy,--that the king would have me
So did he never the sparrow.
And all such false professors! would you have me--
To no sight but thine and mine, invisible
Is she wedded or no?
O, be to me, though thy hard heart say no,
Finds brotherhood in thee no sharper spur?
Bores through his castle wall, and farewell king!
What mean your graces? Good my friends, consider
That weigh their pains in sense and do suppose
I promise you, my soul is very jocund
Sirrah, if they meet not with Saint Nicholas'
Music plays. DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS places them hand in hand
Ere I can perfect mine intents, to kneel:
In at the window, or else o'er the hatch:
but my Nell would not have it so. How chance my
Another yet! A seventh! I'll see no more:
Nor woo in rhyme, like a blind harper's song!
Hath been most sound: I charge you by the law,
What say they?
For as a surfeit of the sweetest things
Who shuns not to break one will sure crack both:
And where's that valiant crook-back prodigy,
And let my counsel sway you in this case.
Marry, this Claudio is condemned for untrussing.
Stabbing him
A bastard son of Priam's.
To let the wretched man outlive his wealth,
Which makes thee thus presumptuous and proud,
And cross-gartered?
I found you wondrous kind. There is your ring;
Yet who's so blind, but says he sees it not?
O'erbears it and burns on.
Now prisoner to the palsy, chastise thee
A most auspicious star, whose influence
To answer this your charge?
So, gentlemen,
composition with the King of Hungary, why then all
O, he is even in my mistress' case,
And these same thoughts people this little world,
strange fowl light upon neighbouring ponds. Your
And joy that thou becomest King Henry's friend.
If that the injuries be justly weigh'd
The name of Cassius honours this corruption,
The daintiest last, to make the end most sweet:
Could penetrate her uncompassionate sire;
Why dost thou lash that whore? Strip thine own back;
I'll be to Caesar; if thou pleasest not,
Hereditary ours.
I will not send them: I will after straight
Was not far off: then was I as a tree
Alas, poor caitiff!
That noble honour'd lord, is fear'd and loved?
acquaintance?
Now for the bare-pick'd bone of majesty
I'll not be made a soft and dull-eyed fool,
And therefore may be broke without offence.
So keen and greedy to confound a man:
Exeunt, marching
The first conditions, which they did refuse
Unless I spake, or look'd, or touch'd, or carved to thee.
fault I pray.
I will not hence, till, with my talk and tears,
No, no; O Lord, sir, no.
How long hath this possession held the man?
Was this fair face the cause, quoth she,
The apprehension of his present portance,
Melted as the snow, seems to me now
less welcome.
As I am an honest man, he looks pale. Art thou
He did receive his letters, and is coming;
Which often leaves the history unspoke
One that you love.
And thereupon these errors are arose.
Above this world; adding thereto moreover
Storm still
No, I'll be sworn.
With whom I am accused, I do confess
With what I get, I mean; and so do they.
Might I but know thee by thy household badge.
That I came with no ill intent; for to me
First, pardon me, my lord. A hue and cry
seven years
A black day will it be to somebody. Ratcliff!
seek him; I'll apprehend him: abominable villain!
that's villanous, and shows a most pitiful ambition
do more for an almond than he for a commodious drab.
parted their fathers. Will it please you to see the
Who can be bound by any solemn vow
On purpose shut the doors against his way.
Pleads he in earnest? look upon his face;
Let's then determine
Very well: you being then, if you be remembered,
Ay, but their sense is shut.
Shall sun that morrow see!
Then say at once what thou dost know in this.
swear, and my father's soul, the work ish ill done;
No more, cousin.
Thou art a fool: she robs thee of thy name;
Our English troops retire, I cannot stay them:
Good night:
Praise him that got thee, she that gave thee suck:
An open et caetera, thou a poperin pear!
Bear free and patient thoughts. But who comes here?
Break their talk, Mistress Quickly: my kinsman shall
But nothing spake in warrant from himself.
Which I presume shall render you no blame
The Conspirators draw, and kill CORIOLANUS: AUFIDIUS stands on his body
He shall not pass you. Twice have the trumpets sounded;
She is my essence, and I leave to be,
For the intent and purpose of the law
And bless the good remainders of the court! I am gone.
Romeo, good night: I'll to my truckle-bed;
I take thee at thy word:
Shylock, although I neither lend nor borrow
O, matter and impertinency mix'd! Reason in madness!
Which, when I know that boasting is an honour,
Nothing but my fortune.
mother looks, and my father died within these two hours.
Most probable
by the moon. As, for proof, now: a purse of gold
here's a goodly sight.
matter in the ditty, yet the note was very
I would I had that corporal soundness now,
Let me hear you speak farther. I have spirit to do
Enter COMINIUS, as it were in retire, with soldiers
Achievements, plots, orders, preventions,
Hast thou, which art but air, a touch, a feeling
'Tis politic and safe to let him keep
impossibility, and knowing I had no such purpose? I
Good morrow, cousin Cressid: what do you talk of?
To show the love and duty that I bear you
But, see, I am prevented.
The people liberal, valiant, active, wealthy;
They want their porridge and their fat bull-beeves:
Though fortune's malice overthrow my state,
And now about the cauldron sing,
God will revenge it; whom I will importune
That headless man
SCENE V. Capulet's orchard.
Till Paris was besieged, famish'd, and lost.
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, reading a letter, LEPIDUS, and their Train
How high a pitch his resolution soars!
Than thine own gladness that thou art employ'd.
Not proud, you have; but thankful, that you have:
Which is that god in office, guiding men?
They have ta'en note of us: keep on your way.
At land, indeed,
your messenger came, in loving visitation was with
So is mine. Do you hear, monster? If I should take
Pardon, sir; error: he is not quantity enough for
men's liking: and yet he would not swear; praised
Thou speak'st like him's untutor'd to repeat:
I am tied to the stake, and I must stand the course.
ANTIPHOLUS
interpreter, you must seem very politic. But couch,
the dark night, which did deceive them, but chiefly
To make perfumes? distil? preserve? yea, so
Which, like a usurer, abound'st in all,
Ay, what else? fear you not her courage.
O God, I could be bounded in a nut shell and count
To plainer ground.
All adoration, duty, and observance,
Ha, ha! how vilely doth this cynic rhyme!
Giving a ring
fortune hath conveyed to my understanding; and, but
And make them tame to their obedience!
[Within]  What, ho! what, ho! what, ho!
Be those with swords?
So say I	amen.
A very serious business calls on him.
With sainted vow my faults to have amended.
shall give you direction.
And this way comes he with it presently;
penned, I have taken great pains to con it. Good
above seven times a week; went to a bawdy-house once
court. I think Crab, my dog, be the sourest-natured
If thou neglect'st or dost unwillingly
Out of sight and raise this present head;
tabour, if thy tabour stand by the church.
Your royal ear abused. First, hath this woman
Good my lord,
I'll fill these dogged spies with false reports:
And where the worser is predominant,
though, I know, to divide him inventorially would
Exeunt LUCENTIO, BIANCA, and BIONDELLO
And towards London they do bend their course,
That when she dies with beauty dies her store.
the old play, that every one may pare his nails with
To take the safest occasion by the front
And then I comes behind.
Being all to dolours turn'd?
Two, two; a shirt and a smock.
Or else a hovering temporizer, that
To cut the head off and then hack the limbs,
I am glad at heart
Enter LORD BERKELEY
Go we to our tent:
By what observance, I pray you?
promise-keeping.
Betwixt the Duke of Gloucester and your brothers,
So, underneath the belly of their steeds,
Those suns of glory, those two lights of men,
O'ertake me, if thou canst; I scorn thy strength.
Ay, marry, am I, sir; and now 'tis plotted.
Deliver'd you a paper that I should not:
Thou art not by mine eye, Lysander, found;
I thank my memory, I yet remember
Cade more: I think he hath a very fair warning.
They lie in view; but have not spoke as yet.
To dark dishonour's use thou shalt not have.
No, nor more fearful.
for, indeed, who would set his wit to so foolish
Now, go thy ways; thou hast tamed a curst shrew.
fit. If I can recover him and keep him tame, I will
And I will give you audience.
Exeunt
In which the majesty of buried Denmark
Our dukedom till God please to send the rest.
Exit
The bawdy wind that kisses all it meets
Our targes undinted.
Good God, these nobles should such stomachs bear!
Then I know thee not:
Re-enter OSWALD
revenge? If we are like you in the rest, we will
Warwick is hoarse with calling thee to arms.
Saw'st thou not, boy, how Silver made it good
Canst thou demise to any child of mine?
Our merchants' goods at Bourdeaux.
Of knights, esquires, and gallant gentlemen,
How you speak!
Whom I would imitate: consumption catch thee!
hearkened to their father's testament. There was a
time that ever I heard breaking of ribs was sport
Now, by this hand, I gave it to a youth,
To see you ta'en from liberty, to look on
Should many people, under two commands,
You have a daughter call'd Elizabeth,
If I could bear it longer, and not fall
The bird that hath been limed in a bush,
Shall I tell you why?
Why, what a shame was this! Did my commission
A plague-sore, an embossed carbuncle,
Yea, and forswore himself,--which Jesu pardon!--
Whither travel you?
So please it you, my lord, 'twere not amiss
If for my love, as there is no such cause,
So thou, my surfeit and my heresy,
As one dead in the bottom of a tomb:
They talk aside
We were not born to sue, but to command;
Confusion now hath made his masterpiece!
Ay, to the leavening; but here's yet in the word
Out of your best advice.
Although the print be little, the whole matter
I grant you, friends, if that you should fright the
But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
What is your difference? speak.
The last leave of thee takes my weeping eye.
yet was not the knight forsworn.
And on my eyelids shall conjecture hang,
Teaching stern murder how to butcher thee:
There is no crossing him in 's humour;
Nor by a hired knife; but that self hand,
A very drudge of nature's, have subdued me
a pin, if the other three were in. Here comes one
So bad a death argues a monstrous life.
Many a time hath banish'd Norfolk fought
That bloody spoil: thou slave, thou wretch, thou coward!
In Belmont is a lady richly left;
Though last, not last in love, yours, good Trebonius.
to herself: it is very true.
Because kind nature doth require it so:
Noble lady,
Remuneration for the thing it was;
Would, each to other and all loves to both,
Nothing, Messala.
Killing in relapse of mortality.
ballads; we'll buy the other things anon.
I pray you, mar no more of my verses with reading
And the ebb'd man, ne'er loved till ne'er worth love,
Alarum within
fight a blow. O Lord, my heart!
And now I remember, my lord, you gave
Until their greater pleasures first be known
By magic verses have contrived his end?
Tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence
Help, help, ho!
Still am I call'd. Unhand me, gentlemen.
This token serveth for a flag of truce
His friends still wrought reprieves for him: and,
The Grecian dames are sunburnt and not worth
and returned me expectations and comforts of sudden
Enter AARON
To do him good?
If they were known, as the suspect is great,
At Bristol I expect my soldiers;
But yet I know you'll do as I advise.
But by and by rude fishermen of Corinth
The deep of night is crept upon our talk,
My boys,
'Tis more by fortune, lady, than by merit.
And, when he's sick to death, let not that part of nature
Importing the surrender of those lands
Did us but loving wrong.
Who is't you mean?
That shall not be much amiss: Yet, as the matter
Thou shalt not sigh, nor hold thy stumps to heaven,
Be unto us as is a nurse's song
But toiling desperately to find it out,--
What would you with the princess?
Your reason?
That would I learn of you,
Here's for my oath, here's for my father's death.
Come, shelter, shelter: I have removed Falstaff's
it quite, friar, till eating and drinking be put
And yet a maiden hath no tongue but thought,--
And as wicked as his wife?
four-inched bridges, to course his own shadow for a
Exeunt
Is likewise yours: we to ourselves prove false,
The state takes notice of the private difference
sound retreat or parley, when I command them kill?
Out on thee, rude man! thou dost shame thy mother
Lucilius' Servant	Five thousand crowns, my lord.
Here shall he see No enemy
In all swift haste.
And so say I.
O, if it should, how would thy guts fall about thy
So I do, madonna; but to read his right wits is to
Thus may we gather honey from the weed,
See, brother, see; note how she quotes the leaves.
How cursed Athens, mindless of thy worth,
devil his true liegeman upon the cross of a Welsh
An earthly paragon! Behold divineness
If you'll employ me to him.
At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him:
So happy is your brother.
The great man down, you mark his favourite flies;
Cyprus black as e'er was crow;
Is he in person ready?
Had not an ear to hear my true time broke.
More company! The fiend is strong within him.
And must she die for this? O, let her live,
They mean to warn us at Philippi here,
Distinguish him from others, he did keep
heinously unprovided. Well, God be thanked for
Who when they were in health, I tell thee, herald,
Bashful sincerity and comely love.
Mazed with a yelping kennel of French curs!
Goes on my master's grief.
What claim lays she to thee?
Your favours nor your hate.
Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY
good, sir, to rise and be put to death.
a bench, but he'll speak with you.
bestowed that time in the tongues that I have in
gold, wrought with flowers, bearing QUEEN
I will tell you, sir, if you will give me the hearing.
If your ladyship would say, 'Thanks, Pompey,' I had done.
That slew himself; and wise Laertes' son
The starry welkin cover thou anon
Conjurers and sorcerers, that afraid of him
I'll make all speed.
And let his very breath, whom thou'lt observe,
Of men's impossibilities, have preserved thee.
Till the last trumpet: for charitable prayers,
For I myself must hunt this deer to death.
As presence did present them; him in eye,
Enter DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO and MOTH
I have heard of your paintings too, well enough; God
Requires slow pace at first: anger is like
Contagion to this world: now could I drink hot blood,
Well, no more of it, Master Froth: farewell.
That thou didst love her, strikes some scores away
All the best men are ours; for 'tis ill hap,
Natures of such deep trust we shall much need;
Upon my banishment: I moved her to't,
Ay me, I am forsworn!
Large gifts have I bestow'd on learned clerks,
Either my eyesight fails, or thou look'st pale.
Exeunt Players
No matter where; of comfort no man speak:
How much unlike art thou to Portia!
We'll calm the Duke of Norfolk, you your son.
To join our kingdoms and our hearts; and never
For all the water in the ocean
Good Master Mustardseed, I know your patience well:
And craves no other tribute at thy hands
She shall be dignified with this high honour--
For the which I will be thy adversary toward Anne
Is not my lord seen yet?
Leave shall you have to court her at your pleasure.
When first I did embrace him: yet his nature
Misfortune to my ventures, out of doubt
Fool, fool! thou whet'st a knife to kill thyself.
and I'll give him my horse, grey Capilet.
Lord Cerimon hath letters of good credit, sir,
And consequently, like a traitor coward,
Here, sir!
Sit, my preserver, by thy patient's side;
To-day will I set forth, to-morrow you.
Blister'd be thy tongue
Now do thou watch, for I can stay no longer.
Yea, and furr'd moss besides, when flowers are none,
Enter KING, frowning on them; takes his seat
Ho! says a' There's my cap.
And I am all forgotten.
When no man was his own.
your wife's wit going to your neighbour's bed.
If it be well to live; but better 'twere
Marry, will I	kneel and repeat it; I will stand,
Shall leave his native channel and o'erswell
soft, soft!
SCENE I. Cyprus. Before the castle.
I'll deliver all;
O, yet defend me, friends; I am but hurt.
Must end that work the ides of March begun;
Of what complexion?
How's that?
We'll crave a parley, to confer with him.
You cloudy princes and heart-sorrowing peers,
And whipp'd the offending Adam out of him,
For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
Laugh at me, make their pastime at my sorrow:
Not hew him as a carcass fit for hounds:
How begot, how nourished?
For you my staff of office did I break
a year: but, by'r lady, he must build churches,
For this alliance may so happy prove,
On the bat's back I do fly
ACT IV
No, make it two more; let it be written in eight and eight.
My servant, sir! 'Twas never merry world
That youth and observation copied there;
If I return, I shall be post indeed,
Which if we should deny, the most just gods
Death, traitor! nothing could have subdued nature
neat's tongue, you bull's pizzle, you stock-fish! O
And if they fall, they dash themselves to pieces.
With viewing of the town: there shall you have me.
And his ill-boding tongue no more shall speak.
For stale to catch these thieves.
swear truth out of England but he would make you
I do believe,
Which must be done by praising me as much
The handkerchief!
Hideth my heart. So, let me hear you speak.
Till I have found each letter in the letter,
This world I do renounce, and, in your sights,
Then, noble York, take thou this task in hand.
Enter HOTSPUR, solus, reading a letter
Conditionally, that here thou take an oath
With drinking healths to my niece: I'll drink to
And here, I hope, is none that envies it.
Rising and cawing at the gun's report,
Rome will despise her for this foul escape.
They were again together: you have done
We have a power on foot; and I had purpose
Angering itself and others.--Bless thee, master!
is, sure, possessed, madam.
in their very gesture; they looked as they had heard
No more words, we beseech you.
The will of man is by his reason sway'd;
Prithee, honey-sweet husband, let me bring thee to Staines.
Enter GLOUCESTER and EDMUND
To me, my father?
But this your minion, whom I know you love,
Sir, it is;
What if I do obey?
Not so, sweet  lady: but too mean a servant
Now, lords, my choler being over-blown
Of what lies heavy to't.
Where is mine host?
I am cold myself. Where is this straw, my fellow?
'Tis very true: thou didst it excellent.
Help, help, help! here's a madman will murder me.
Come here himself to question our delay;
Which I have better'd rather than decreased:
Not seen of late? Grant, heavens, that which I fear
And then is heard no more: it is a tale
Proud scornful boy, unworthy this good gift;
I fear our purpose is discovered.
I will be jovial: come, come; I am a king,
What's the matter! there be four of us here have
It is no matter.
I'll beat thee, but I should infect my hands.
digestion, why hast thou not served thyself in to
ladies' eyes;
Do seek subversion of thy harmless life?
Let the court of France show me such another. I see
Through your dominions for this enterprise,
the air, promise-crammed: you cannot feed capons so.
Love's counsellor should fill the bores of hearing,
What you would ask me, that I should deny,
An if thou couldst, thou couldst not make him live;
Presenting HORTENSIO
And fear not lords, and you, Lavinia;
The sugar'd game before thee. But myself,
By this time from their fixed beds of lime
write and read.
Here lurks no treason, here no envy swells,
To bury so much gold under a tree,
That thou art malcontent? I will provide thee.
Exeunt
stuck in ears: you might have pinched a placket, it
And I will sign it.
Shall, stiff and stark and cold, appear like death:
Stand all apart Cousin of Buckingham!
If I forgive him!
And each one to his office when he wakes.
That hath been breeder of these dire events.
be born under Mars.
come from Pisa, and is here at the door to speak with him.
Therefore, I say 'tis meet we all go forth
Sith every action that hath gone before,
Duke Alencon's.
Die in his youth by like untimely violence!
As could not be distinguish'd but by names.
Away with him! Who hath made this havoc with them?
And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
retire, and the Duke of Exeter is master of the
All ignorant that soul that sees thee without wonder;
You?
You are mine enemy, and make my challenge
Ay, by my life;
Enter a third Gentleman
Trumpets within
Falls on the body
DON
Be't as our gods will have't! It only stands
that pass: for I must tell thee, it will please his
O, 'tis our setter: I know his voice. Bardolph,
night-raven, come what plague could have come after
I will, my lord.
Suggest but truth to my divining thoughts,
The happy man; whether defect of judgment,
The gods requite his charity!'
epilogue alone.
Die I a villain, then!
Pray you, go to him.
'Twill be deliver'd back on good condition.
Myself have to mine own turn'd enemy:
love him, I should.'
And long live thou and these thy forward sons!
As I by thine a wife: this is a match,
That daughter there of Spain, the Lady Blanch,
Their iron indignation 'gainst your walls:
fought a most prave pattle here in France.
But, like dumb statues or breathing stones,
Beshrew me, but you have a quick wit.
Exeter, thou art a traitor to the crown
You have put him down, lady, you have put him down.
The arbitrement is like to be bloody. Fare you
Govern the motion of a kingly eye:
This day was view'd in open as his queen,
By this hat, then, he in the red face had it; for
beard, your orange-tawny beard, your purple-in-grain
My lord, upon the platform where we watch'd.
Ere he would have hanged a man for the getting a
Peace, peace, Mercutio, peace!
Into a general prophecy; That this tempest,
Wilt live, fly after: and like an arrow shot
A minister of her will: and it is great
A most intelligencing bawd!
Even in their throats that have committed them.
Abuses me to damn me: I'll have grounds
And with a dropping industry they skip
That wounds the unsisting postern with these strokes.
But what it is, that is not yet known; what
What, sovereign sir,
For which the pardoner himself is in.
horn-pipes. I must have saffron to colour the warden
You shall not be admitted to his sight.
When, for his hand, he had his two sons' heads;
There's some great matter she'ld employ me in.
I am sorry for 't; not seeming
Fetch Desdemona hither.
Who gave his blood to lime the stones together,
A wave o' the sea, that you might ever do
Takes up HOTSPUR on his back
Corporal Nym, an thou wilt be friends, be friends:
And so do I. Victorious Prince of York,
Or with pale beggar-fear impeach my height
What say you to his expertness in war?
Enter ANGELO
Fair sir, I pity her
She wish'd she had not heard it, yet she wish'd
And therefore frame your manners to the time.
executed, and sleep afterwards.
Our daughter Mary: i' the progress of this business,
But you should pity me!
Masterly done:
'Romeo is banished,' to speak that word,
Enter, on the turrets, SALISBURY and TALBOT, GLANSDALE, GARGRAVE, and others
Creating awe and fear in other men?
Alas, how can we for our country pray.
Since God so graciously hath brought to light
O heavens! you love me not.
And, in the lawful name of marrying,
If that the Turkish fleet
To Cymbeline perform'd:
Dost thou wear thy wit by thy side?
So long in his unlucky Irish wars
If that the youth of my new interest here
For shame, thou helding of a devilish spirit,
Here, Lord Bassanio; swear to keep this ring.
Five times in that ere once in our five wits.
My liege, I did deny no prisoners.
Nor, I am sure, there is no force in eyes
At thy service.
'Con tutto il cuore, ben trovato,' may I say.
There, take the crown, and, with the crown, my curse;
Here is the man, this Moor, whom now, it seems,
Exeunt
I am a Roman; and my services are,
When we shall hap to give 't them.
Now, brother Richard, will you stand by us?
convocation of politic worms are e'en at him. Your
Away with scrupulous wit! now arms must rule.
She is cunning past man's thought.
When I was but your sister; I you brothers,
O Gertrude, come away!
Enter IMOGEN, in boy's clothes
The word is 'mildly.' Pray you, let us go:
Trumpets sound. Exeunt
with you. You must not know where he sups.
When she shall hear this of thee, with her nails
will myself have Anne Page.
Upon mine honour, thou shalt marry her.
Civility not seen from other, valour
By Janus, I think no.
grave-maker: 'the houses that he makes last till
Why seek'st thou me? could not this make thee know,
Sir, I will answer any thing. But, I beseech you,
By heaven, lady, you shall have no cause
SCENE IV. A street.
I am as mad as he,
Worse than tears drown: beseech you all, my lords,
a commonweal that do nothing but use their abuses in
They come like sacrifices in their trim,
Ungentle queen, to call him gentle Suffolk!
Good sir, be not offended.
Be copy now to men of grosser blood,
In fortune's love; for then the bold and coward,
God-a-mercy, Grumio! then he shall have no odds.
Therefore let him be consul: the gods give him joy,
Of many in the army: many years,
Exeunt
Though I could wish
Richly in two short hours. Only they
His vices, you would say; there's no virtue whipped
That codding spirit had they from their mother,
Thy father was the Duke of Milan and
I must have done no less with wit and safety.
out of the 'Hundred Merry Tales:'--well this was
Or swell the curled water 'bove the main,
as you are. Would we could see you at Corinth!
The whilst their own birds famish in their nests:
fire, or shall I complain on thee to our mistress,
God keep me from false friends! but they were none.
His worth is warrant for his welcome hither,
This sword, this arm, and my best spirits, are bent
And let my officers of such a nature
Now, by the salt wave of the Mediterraneum, a sweet
Come, kiss; and let us part.
I will appear, and fight.
As in a vault, an ancient receptacle,
Exit GALLUS
I should fear those that dance before me now
Did not together pluck such envy from him
Adieu: be vigitant, I beseech you.
'Twould prove the verity of certain words
Counting myself but bad till I be best.
For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
And, let me tell you, it will ne'er be well,
Tutus Aufidius, is he within your walls?
Some never-heard-of torturing pain for them.
And will not lightly trust the messenger
bestowed her on her own lamentation, which she yet
you. Your name, honest gentleman?
From your kind aunt, Duchess of Burgundy,
Have sent a dozen sequent messengers
But if my father had not scanted me
More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
to thy heart, and farewell.'
And saved the treacherous labour of your son.
How now, you whoreson peasant!
Enter MALCOLM and MACDUFF
Much comfort in't; says 'My poor prisoner,
Exeunt MOTH and COSTARD
children rawly left. I am afeard there are few die
To-morrow, then, we will attend your grace:
Ambitions, covetings, change of prides, disdain,
I did not entertain thee as thou art.
Excellent good.
Have lost the wager. Boldness be my friend!
By all their influences, you may as well
The edge of that day's celebration
A lustre to it.
More than remembrance of my father's death.
If she first meet the curled Antony,
Your sovereign greatness and authority.
Pard, or boar with bristled hair,
A mother hourly coining plots, a wooer
To whom in favour she shall give the day,
But, in the wind and tempest of her frown,
Where dust and damn'd oblivion is the tomb
Brother, the king hath made your nephew mad.
moved the king my master to speak in the behalf of
Observe mine uncle: if his occulted guilt
thou a bear, thou wouldst be killed by the horse:
I would kiss before I spoke.
How couldst thou drain the life-blood of the child,
Though he be grown so desperate to be honest,
None, but your beauty: would that fault were mine!
Beyond imagination is the wrong
See Cassio wipe his beard with.
[Aside]  Now, by the gods, he could not please me better.
Begin again
I thank you; you shall hear from me anon:
Depress'd he is already, and deposed
And thy best graces spend it at thy will!
Lest with my sighs or tears I blast or drown
Ay, and make't manifest where she has lived,
Enter GRATIANO, LORENZO, SALARINO, and SALANIO
To stop the rumor, and allay those tongues
Though standing naked on a mountain top,
bencher in the Capitol.
what is his humility? Revenge. If a Christian
Tell us the Dauphin's mind.
Keep Hector company an hour or two.
No, Exeter, these graces challenge grace:
What I shall think is good?--The princess!
Must it be great, and as his person's mighty,
More composition and fierce quality
Let him that was the cause of this have power
And, in good time, here comes the noble duke.
Upon the British party: O, untimely death!
Than that of common sons.
I'll call for clubs, if you will not away.
Nice longing, slanders, mutability,
To tread them with her tender-feeling feet.
Than cherishing the exhibiters against us;
your poor disposer's sick.
Good king, to be so mightily abused!
never else cross me thus.
Mine ear, I thank it, brought me to thy sound
It must needs be of subtle, tender and delicate
to this man how Don John your brother incensed me
Did not I say he would work it out? the cur is
But if it were, doubt not her care should be
Even in the height and pride of all his glory,
Pardon, master;
Desires you let the dukedoms that you claim
that they cannot at ease on the old bench? O, their
'Thus must thou speak,' and 'thus thy body bear:'
What's she?
Exit DEMETRIUS
An ancient angel coming down the hill,
But 'banished' to kill me?--'banished'?
If I be not by her fair influence
Lordings, farewell; and say, when I am gone,
in a sleep, and, giving him the lie, leaves him.
Of their best trust; o'er them Aufidius,
Your sauciness will jest upon my love
And still to nose the offence.
prevailing and to make it brief wars. This is true,
Giving KENT money
What cheer? how is't with you, best brother?
It was much like to do: he answer'd, 'Tush,
Was once superfluous: you were crown'd before,
And urged it twice together, did he not?
To whom, my lord? with whom? how am I false?
Her chamber is aloft, far from the ground,
As under privilege of age to brag
Spiteful and wrathful, who, as others do,
Embolden'd with the glory of her praise,
I am sure of that: and at her late being here
our assistants, at the king's command, and this most
gallants. We lost too much money this mart by being
Enter Chorus
Hence-banished is banish'd from the world,
Enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS and two Gaolers
And cut her hands and trimm'd her as thou saw'st.
With scraps o' the court, it is no contract, none:
That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
Were my fortunes equal to my desires, I could wish
the victory. I am sorry for her, as I have just
Indeed he is not fit.
distraction, they conveyed me into a buck-basket.
Marry, sir, we'll bring you to Windsor, to one
with the other confederate companion!
stay the cooling too, or you may chance to burn your lips.
Thurio borrows his wit from your ladyship's looks,
shalt wear me, if thou wear me, better and better:
an egg for quarrelling: thou hast quarrelled with a
Great Troy is ours, and our sharp wars are ended.
has the prettiest love-songs for maids; so without
SONG
Did not attend him as we rode? I think
I shall despair. There is no creature loves me;
To line his enterprise: but if you go,--
To wail the tide, as her mother doth.
Commanded nature, that my lady's womb,
Of such a thing as thou, to fear, not to delight.
Will raise us all.
In the south suburbs, at the Elephant,
Hold him in safety, till the prince come hither.
nor no in luck stirring but what lights on my
That minces virtue, and does shake the head
[Sings]
What says the fellow there? Call the clotpoll back.
That copest with death himself to scape from it:
I'll help you, Sir Toby, because well be dressed together.
O my dear lord,
My liege!
And I with them the third night kept the watch;
I thought she had some great matter there in hand;
This kingdom, this confine of blood and breath,
None, sir, none.
Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY
Here stood he in the dark, his sharp sword out,
There's letters from my mother: what the import is,
Which I must act: briefness and fortune, work!
They smile at me that shortly shall be dead.
man so rayed? was ever man so weary? I am sent
Enchanting all that you put in.
Make room, and let him stand before our face.
And Warwick rages like a chafed bull:
Be Mercury, set feathers to thy heels,
shall lose all the sight.
Keeps still in Dunsinane, and will endure
Lights that do mislead the morn:
fool: drunkenness is his best virtue, for he will
Doth much excuse the appertaining rage
Have sold their fortunes at their native homes,
Courteous destroyers, affable wolves, meek bears,
Before proud Athens he's set down by this,
As if it felt with Scotland and yell'd out
Sir Robert Brakenbury, and Sir William Brandon.
O, ransom, ransom! do not hide mine eyes.
What's the matter with thee now?
William, how many numbers is in nouns?
Be judged by subject and inferior breath,
As where's that palace whereinto foul things
Then hast thou taught Hortensio to be untoward.
Why do you speak to me? I never hurt you:
That thou so many princes at a shot
And Antenorides, with massy staples
Descend.
forest lays claim to you.
Very like a whale.
With bitter fasts, with penitential groans,
From the murderer's gibbet throw
That heart, which now abhors, to like his love.
To answer matters of this consequence.
uneasy to get the cause of my son's resort thither.
I have found great love amongst them. O my sweet,
'Tis his main hope:
No, this was he, Messala,
'Tis call'd the evil:
Welcome, my lord: I marvel our mild husband
And he repents not that he pays your debt;
And am fall'n out with my more headier will,
He never did encounter with Glendower:
And takest it all for jest.
Love wrought these miracles. Bianca's love
Corrupt with virtuous season. Can it be
Hail to thee, noble master!
And his more braver daughter could control thee,
Must needs give sentence 'gainst the merchant there.
How she opposes her against my will
that then thou mightst kill 'em and bid me to 'em!
They are harsh and heavy to me.
In Sicyon:
Fear not slander, censure rash;
I pant for life: some good I mean to do,
And with such cozenage--is't not perfect conscience,
Signior Gremio, came you from the church?
Come away, servant, come. I am ready now.
At last, though long, our jarring notes agree:
Why, after I have cut the egg i' the middle, and eat
And comment then upon his sudden death.
I think, to steal cream indeed, for thy theft hath
Where is the gold I gave in charge to thee?
Good uncle, tell your tale; I have done.
Exeunt BIANCA and Servant
And other of such vinegar aspect
A weasel hath not such a deal of spleen
Exeunt
Thou shouldst have been, and shielded him
And then with kind embracements, tempting kisses,
I wish my brother make good time with him,
Now, where's my wife?
I hold it ever,
And afterward consort you till bed-time:
make me tell them how much I lack of a man.
Give me thy knife, I will insult on him;
To thy good truth and honour. Devilish Macbeth
As much as I deserve! Why, that's the lady:
Apollo flies, and Daphne holds the chase;
Force her hence.
Ay, go your ways, go your ways; I knew what you
Alarum, and chambers go off
How now, monsieur! this drum sticks sorely in your
He then that is not furnish'd in this sort
courtesy! 'tis so, indeed. Yet again your fingers
How to lament the cause. I'll beg one boon,
Where Claudio stoop'd to death, and with like haste.
Which, like a bourn, a pale, a shore, confines
But go we in, I pray thee, Jessica,
Assured loss before the match be play'd.
And cull'd these fiery spirits from the world,
Have with you. I would rather hear them scold than fight.
Re-enter Servant
In few, they hurried us aboard a bark,
No, precious creature;
A stony adversary, an inhuman wretch
Thy now unsured assurance to the crown,
Nothing, neither way.
Good night, sir.
And let your fervor, like my master's, be
Now sit we close about this taper here,
ACT IV
next block.
the hill; we'll walk afoot awhile, and ease our legs.
'Good Gloucester' and 'good devil' were alike,
He, obedient to their dooms,
Shoots buck and doe:
And our nobility will scorn the match.
lily-livered, action-taking knave, a whoreson,
If only to go warm were gorgeous,
Tut, I came not to hear this.
And, in this brainish apprehension, kills
Till he have brought thee up to yonder troops,
And who should find them but the empress' villain?
Maintain a mourning ostentation
Enter CARDINAL OF WINCHESTER, attended
Stands for my bounty. But who comes here?
My heart is not compact of flint nor steel;
Therefore these stops of thine fright me the more:
Did my father strike my gentleman for chiding of his fool?
Thou art, if thou darest be, the earthly Jove:
Herein you war against your reputation
The senate's courtesy? Let deeds express
Vouchsafe to show the sunshine of your face,
or four wenches, where I stood, cried 'Alas, good
But my heart bleeds; and most accursed am I
The preyful princess pierced and prick'd a pretty
But, I your daughter, he must be my brother?
I? I care not an she were a black-a-moor; 'tis all one to me.
brought me up, I likewise give her most humble
To knock out an honest Athenian's brains.
How was this seal'd?
With libbard's head on knee.
Of Cloten's death--we being not known, not muster'd
my sword upon a stone and bid him take that for
Shall tax my fears of little vanity,
Is it possible?
And keep in-a-door,
motions. Shall I lose my parson, my priest, my Sir
is?
Paris is gored with Menelaus' horn.
Valiant, wise, remorseful, well accomplish'd:
O, what, am I
What dares not Warwick, if false Suffolk dare him?
Exeunt PAGE, DOCTOR CAIUS, and SIR HUGH EVANS
Empties itself, as doth an inland brook
Here: what's the matter?
And not neglected; else, if heaven would,
Besides this present instance of his rage,
My lord,--
Save base authority from others' books
And call in question our necessities.
In the corrupted currents of this world
I wonder that you will still be talking, Signior
That perish'd by the way: thoughts are no subjects;
That princely novice, was struck dead by thee?
I say 'your city,' to his wife and mother;
Take hold on me, for my particular grief
Gloucester, I live
If I live to be as old as Sibylla, I will die as
Than such a murder is.
Good Lord! you use this dalliance to excuse
Come hither, herald,--Let the trumpet sound,
And that the Earl of Surrey, with the rod.
For fear I surfeit.
Is not to walk in.
Or ere your pulse twice beat.
My mind gave me,
I fear we should have seen decipher'd there
Which he will put on us, as pigeons feed their young.
As meditation or the thoughts of love,
Then call'd you for the l'envoy.
looked for at your hand, and this was balked: the
SCENE IV. The same.
quickly! the other that she's in earth, from whence
As I intend more good to you and yours,
To old Free-town, our common judgment-place.
And drench'd me in the sea, where I am drown'd.
For a worthy lady
Yes, he would give't thee, from this rank offence,
will amend: for give the dry fool drink, then is
This the very coinage of your brain:
Let us haste to hear it,
He leaves me, scorns me: briefly die their joys
To mingle friendship far is mingling bloods.
O virtuous fight,
That struck the hour!--it was in Rome,--accursed
Shall point on me and gild my banishment.
Indeed!
I do fear, too dreadful:
To revel in the entrails of my lambs.
To prove whose blood is reddest, his or mine.
Often resort unto this gentlewoman?
Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
Have you not made an universal shout,
things; and, to conclude, they are lying knaves.
Enter DOGBERRY, VERGES, and Sexton, in gowns; and the Watch, with CONRADE and BORACHIO
That were the servants to this chosen infant,
I'll answer thee in any fair degree,
O'erbears your officers. The rabble call him lord;
As green as Ajax' and your brain so temper'd,
Where is she gone? Haply, despair hath seized her,
Upon his royal face there is no note
Makes heaven drowsy with the harmony.
And, though mine enemy, restored again
To employ you towards this Roman. Come, our queen.
This is a happier and more comely time
the very man. Here's his dry hand up and down: you
Even in so short a space, my woman's heart
Deliver'd by a friend that came from him.
Enter PAROLLES
To give it due content.
For certainly thou art so near the gulf,
above your eye?
Be't when she weaved the sleided silk
Let it command a mirror hither straight,
Go, some of you, knock at the abbey-gate
Now he tells how she plucked him to my chamber. O,
Up.
Thy state of law is bondslave to the law; And thou--
I will not slay thee, but I'll drive thee back:
Music. Here a dance of Shepherds and Shepherdesses
For this great journey. What did this vanity
Is't not enough to break into my garden,
Make with you by due turns. Only we still retain
Methinks King Richard and myself should meet
All faults I make, when I shall come to know them,
Help us to sigh and groan,
Ah, sirrah!
In your supposing once more put your sight
Out, strumpet! weep'st thou for him to my face?
Ha! a fat woman! the knight may be robbed: I'll
What, Buckingham and Clifford, are ye so brave? And
embassage; and so I commit you--
You have not call'd me so, nor have you cause.
How does your fallow greyhound, sir? I heard say he
All his tricks founder, and he brings his physic
Of our flesh; few are angels: out of which frailty
I met a courier, one mine ancient friend;
Carthage?
Both, both, my girl:
[Reads]  'First demand of him how many horse the
Who are the votaries, my loving lords,
Thy match was mortal to him, and pure grief
As you'll have her.
She may be honest yet. Tell me but this,
That Edward still should live! 'True, noble prince!'
My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent;
And he that stands upon a slippery place
Doth for a wife abhor. But her fair sister,
But he that disciplined thy arms to fight,
Since the physician at your father's died?
My mouth no more were broken than these boys',
To-morrow's vengeance on the head of Richard.
Il me commande de vous dire que vous faites vous
I thank you.--By yond bush?--Pray, how far thither?
Most busy lest, when I do it.
Unguided and unfriended, often prove
When his love he doth espy,
Why, he will look upon his boot and sing; mend the
Your bedded hair, like life in excrements,
And with him there lie mudded.
That none shall have access unto Bianca
Let it not, Brutus.
Yea, but 'tis like that they will know us by our
That we meet here so strangely: but her son
Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
And would not put my reputation now
To celebrate the joy that God hath given us.
Till by degrees the memory of my womb,
Let's purge this choler without letting blood:
To grace it with your sorrows: bid that welcome
Whispers the o'er-fraught heart and bids it break.
Bear't that the opposed may beware of thee.
Even make me wild: O slave, of no more trust
They did not bless us with one happy word.
Madam, if this you purpose as ye speak,
The lists and full proportions, are all made
That have outlived the eagle, page thy heels,
And Pericles, in sorrow all devour'd,
Dost thou infamonize me among potentates? thou shalt
shall seem to notify unto her.
Yea, so familiar!
As fear may teach us out of late examples
Vexing the dull ear of a drowsy man;
A jealous hood, a jealous hood!
certain: 'tis dangerous to take a cold, to sleep, to
Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
Do you persuade yourself that I respect you?
In common worldly things, 'tis call'd ungrateful,
Deceitful Warwick! it was thy device
But shall I hear him speak?
Why, Paris hath colour enough.
it was not Anne, but a postmaster's boy.
No sooner was I crept out of my cradle
I speak to subjects, and a subject speaks,
His brandish'd sword did blind men with his beams:
Befitting this first meeting. Welcome, sir;
It may be I shall raise you by and by
you strange news that you yet dreamt not of.
So said her woman; and that her sufferance made
Because your speech hath none that tells him so?
Nor wit nor reason can my passion hide.
For high feats done to the crown; neither allied
The king by me requests your presence straight.
How many times shall Caesar bleed in sport,
In place of greater state. I'll meet you in the valleys.
thought of it, I would take Desire prisoner, and
And so was mine, my lord.
Chief architect and plotter of these woes:
These famish'd beggars, weary of their lives;
Their arms are set like clocks, stiff to strike on;
Look into these affairs see this main end,
What compass will you wear your farthingale?'
Exit CARDINAL WOLSEY
Is it not lawful, an please your majesty, to tell
Flutter'd your Volscians in Corioli:
Quite from his nature: he cannot flatter, he,
That Charles the Dauphin may encounter them.
Therein the patient
Immediately to marry: she hath consented: Now, sir,
That in the field lie slain: of princes, in this number,
Our setting down before 't.
Ere human statute purged the gentle weal;
And as a stranger to my heart and me
He's a sworn rioter: he has a sin that often
As passes colouring.
Item, you sent a large commission
But in our circumstance and course of thought,
How hath your lordship brook'd imprisonment?
Was ever gentleman thus grieved as I?
We will not line his thin bestained cloak
[Aside]  Simonides!
He is of a very melancholy disposition.
In what safe place you have bestow'd my money,
Will very well become a soldier's dance.
Wherein thou liest in reputation sick;
envious a scholar, a statesman and a soldier.
And thou, O wall, O sweet, O lovely wall,
The battery from my heart. O, cleave, my sides!
Live in thy tongue and heart: old Escalus,
You are sent for to the senate:
my grace. Rich she shall be, that's certain; wise,
First, provost, let me bail these gentle three.
thee, Malvolio?
to the devil wrath; one unperfectness shows me
The king himself is rode to view their battle.
Which is as bad as die with tickling.
we meet in the city, we shall be dogged with
Now, as I live, I will. My nobler friends,
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
A thousand hearts are great within my bosom:
I partly know the man: go, call him hither.
As you had slept between: Leontes leaving,
swear in both the scales against either scale;
Caesar has had great wrong.
If you have poison for me, I will drink it.
malice, that, giving itself the lie, would pluck
Choked with ambition of the meaner sort:
And when you do them--
these eyes? I cannot tell; I think not: I will not
a-field to-day?
Ha! art thou bedlam? dost thou thirst, base Trojan,
Farewell, ancient lady; farewell,
To rest awhile, some half an hour or so,
Well, Duke of Gloucester, I will yield to thee;
As nothing else could match.
To keep itself from noyance; but much more
The ruin of the state.
All curses madded Hecuba gave the Greeks,
Now heaven send thee good fortune!
To take is not to give.
I am come to know your pleasure.
tales of me. I am bound to the Count Orsino's court: farewell.
My Lord of Hereford, my message is to you.
She loved me well deliver'd it to me.
You foolish shepherd, wherefore do you follow her,
He shall enlarge him: fetch Malvolio hither:
I bid for you as I'd buy.
And you have rung it lustily, my lord;
prevent your discovery, and your secrecy to the king
Your father's head, which Clifford placed there;
It is the cowish terror of his spirit,
But the law will not allow it, Pompey; nor it shall
[Aside]  That will not be in haste.
How eagerly ye follow my disgraces,
but I am a plain-dealing villain. I am trusted with
The next news is, I have to London sent
You see how full of changes his age is; the
How like a deer, strucken by many princes,
For it requires the royal debt it lent you.
Ah, what a shame were this! Look on the boy;
That sure methought her eyes had lost her tongue,
Which thou didst force from Talbot, my brave boy:'
Which is the lady I must seize upon?
Enter YORK, and his army of Irish, with drum and colours
Thus most invectively he pierceth through
Re-enter one with the heads
You would have given me your petition, that
and I came no sooner into the dining-chamber but he
Here comes a member of the commonwealth.
[Aside]  I wish not so; unless it had been the fall
Thou sayest true, i' faith, so they must; for your
Lies in his hamstring, and doth think it rich
Thy temples should be planted presently
And, being protector, stayed the soldiers' pay;
The article of your oath; which you shall never
And let me buy your friendly help thus far,
Yes, faith; it is my cousin's duty to make curtsy
Or from our masters?
And come now to create you Duke of York.
known truth to pass a thousand nothings with, should
Whose spirits toil in frame of villanies.
Prithee, let her alone, and list to me.
wonder at Angelo. How will you do to content this
besides, possessed with the glanders and like to mose
Made me a counterfeit: yet my mother seem'd
Ten thousand French have ta'en the sacrament
To find out you. Who's that? Metellus Cimber?
But if thou, jealous, dost return to pry
You holy clergymen, is there no plot
I would to God my heart were flint, like Edward's;
Victorious Titus, rue the tears I shed,
ANTIPHOLUS
Oh, poor Clarence!
In all my writings: go with me, and see
Fairies use flowers for their charactery.
This is another prisoner that I saved.
For better times to come. Friar, advise him;
Enter Tailor
My poor corpse, where my bones shall be thrown:
cozen-germans that has cozened all the hosts of
Come.
broke any man's head but his own, and that was
Eating the flesh that she herself hath bred.
me say, 'saving your reverence, a husband:' and bad
Ay, with my heart
For Brutus only overcame himself,
This is a merry ballad, but a very pretty one.
Break not your sleeps for that: you must not think
My king is tangled in affection to
Give me your hand.
Please you, I'll tell you as we pass along,
Now come, my Ariel! bring a corollary,
Enter Sir William LUCY, attended; Herald of the French preceding
reputation, or bid farewell to your good life for ever.
That I would set my lie on any chance,
It is a poison temper'd by himself.
Is she as tall as me?
Ye say honestly: rest you merry!
That is too much presumption on thy part:
Exit
After new fancies: she, dying, gave it me;
So half my Egypt were submerged and made
Prithee, Apemantus, read me the superscription of
But if you do, you'll make me wish a sin,
To curse the fair proceedings of this day:
Is this true, Pistol?
even out of that will I cause these of Cyprus to
And from my heart's love I do thank thee for it.
The villain is much lighter-heel'd than I:
Yet here Prince Edward stands, King Henry's son.
If we did think
in the world, if a' could get her good-will.
And afterward determine our proceedings.
And then he sends you word
Banished, sir.
To stop the foreign spirits, but they come,
Will watch thy waking, and that very night
You should not ruffle thus. What will you do?
[Reads]  'Fare thee well; and God have mercy upon
It is great sin to swear unto a sin,
Windsor stag; and the fattest, I think, i' the
Or in his emmence that fills it up,
enterprise. We pray you, for your own sake, to
More, by all mores, than e'er I shall love wife.
I do dismiss you to your several countries.
Environed with a wilderness of sea,
But while I say one prayer!
comedy: my cue is villanous melancholy, with a
Leave not the mansion so long tenantless,
In envy that my Lord Northumberland
On this side my hand, and on that side yours.
he be angry indeed.
While his own lands are bargain'd for and sold.
To my proceedings, if, with pure heart's love,
Of hope, not longing, mine Italian brain
To hurl at the beholders of my shame:
he shall reign; but I'll be protector over him.
Did hang a salt-fish on his hook, which he
Than hear say how I got them.
Topas, do not think I am mad: they have laid me
Which she must dote on in extremity.
Or will you blame and lay the fault on me?
Wanting the scythe, all uncorrected, rank,
Good man, those joyful tears show thy true heart:
capons and clocks the tongues of bawds and dials the
My lord, the man I know.
The horsemen sit like fixed candlesticks,
Good faith, I'll prove him,
It seems to me most strange that men should fear;
That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat,
That spoil'd your summer fields and fruitful vines,
Out!
Oftener upon her knees than on her feet,
Our valour is to chase what flies; our cage
[To VOLUMNIA and VIRGILIA]  Your hand, and yours:
Do thy worst:
eyes! By so much the more shall I to-morrow be at
Come, both you cogging Greeks; have at you both!
Enter CATESBY
that the property of rain is to wet and fire to
You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said;
Quoth she, before you tumbled me,
Christ's mother helps me, else I were too weak.
His crown shall be the ransom of my friend;
Here's an overweening rogue!
My lord, this argues conscience in your grace;
Which ever has and ever shall be growing,
In way of marriage: therefore be advised.
Was it so late, friend, ere you went to bed,
to-morrow wed her; but it would better fit your honour
Welcome, Mercade;
I have felt so many quirks of joy and grief,
Follow me, then,
relief, if it be but for that. if I can recover him
Thy master now lies thinking in his bed
The poison of that lies in you to temper. Go you to
May be my friends. He's dead; I am only sorry
I once did hold it, as our statists do,
This is a very scurvy tune to sing at a man's
For by my scouts I was advertised
SCENE III. The same.
In brief, he led me to the gentle duke,
Clear them o' the city. For myself, I'll put
Stand fast, and wear a castle on thy head!
If you will take a homely man's advice,
Go after her: she's desperate; govern her.
civil and humane seeming, for the better compassing
[Aside]               You will be whipp'd.
Re-enter BIONDELLO
That ever death should let life bear his name,
Exeunt
he have caught the Benedick, it will cost him a
I have told him, Lepidus was grown too cruel;
Believe it, for you know it. There is money; spend
neither choose whom I would nor refuse whom I
He that doth naught with her, excepting one,
Heard you all this, her women?
all neighbouring languages; therefore we must every
but, I pray you, tell me, is my boy, God rest his
speak for himself.
Ne'er see thou man, and let me ne'er see thee.
I'll yield myself to prison willingly,
My powers are crescent, and my auguring hope
Enter CALIBAN with a burden of wood. A noise of thunder heard
I know not how it tastes; though it be dish'd
Because in choice he is so oft beguiled.
Pardon me, good father; it is against my oath.
Upon his passion; let myself and fortune
Think not, although in writing I preferr'd
But rather make you thank your pains for it.
Why, how couldst thou know these men in Kendal
Enter LODOVICO. MONTANO, CASSIO carried in a chair, and Officers with IAGO, prisoner
fashion, yours is worth ten on 't.
Hath not thy rose a thorn, Plantagenet?
A moderate table.
Say 'What is it your honour will command?'
Wherein you would have sold your king to slaughter,
To please the palate of my appetite,
O, yes, my lord; he wore his beaver up.
his face, if he be not fellow with the best king,
Are stored with corn to make your needy bread,
[Within]  What, ho, gossip Ford! what, ho!
Enter a Servant
But pared my present havings, to bestow
But, since I am a dog, beware my fangs:
Thou must be gone, wench, thou must be gone; thou
Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
Or bobtail tike or trundle-tail,
Have been as piercing as the mid-day sun,
Now, what admittance, lord?
If by strong hand you offer to break in
You, sir, more knave than fool, after your master.
Exeunt Banditti
Let my master in, Luce.
Descended from the Duke of Clarence' house,
Let me my service tender on your lips.
could run as fast as thou canst. You are straight
Good lord chamberlain,
Stiffen the sinews, summon up the blood,
You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
The rest will comfort, for thy counsel's sound.
Doth grossly close it in, we cannot hear it.
Be strew'd before your feet!
It is the curse of kings to be attended
Thou art a strange fellow: a tailor make a man?
What says she, fair one? that the tongues of men
Titus Andronicus, for thy favors done
Command the conquest, Charles, it shall be thine,
Silence; no more: go closely in with me:
He is within, with two right reverend fathers,
side her, the Bishops of London and
in the chine; troubled with the lampass, infected
your lingers and thumb, give it breath with your
Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling,
Well, peace be with you, sir: here comes my man.
The thing he means to kill more excellently.
Thou ever strong upon the stronger side!
A man, sir.
Nay, but make haste; the better foot before.
You have a son, Aumerle, my noble cousin;
Make poor men's cattle break their necks;
Thou great commander, nerve and bone of Greece,
By cock, they are to blame.
Titinius' face is upward.
With pennons painted in the blood of Harfleur:
All his revenue.
He, more incensed against your majesty
They are the issue of your loins, my liege,
In Crete, in Sparta, nor in Thessaly:
But, host, doth this Sir Proteus that we talk on
Give Richard leave to live till Richard die?
Enter CORNWALL, REGAN, and Attendants
Be he unto me! this do I beg of God,
Who am prepared against your territories,
O, no! the apprehension of the good
But that I am your most obedient servant.
And whine aloud for mercy: take him hence.
The precious note of it with a base slave.
replication should be made by the son of a king?
And turn'd into the extremity of love.
Or be inferior to the proudest peer.
Thou naughty gaoler, that thou art so fond
Young boy, I must.
If I know more of any man alive
Felt so much cold as over shoes in snow?
Send her another; never give her o'er;
Re-enter TITINIUS with MESSALA
Stand, ho! Speak the word along.
I buy a thousand pound a year: I buy a rope.
To all his lands and signories: when he's return'd,
We'll never leave till we have hewn thee down,
A partial slander sought I to avoid,
The sun, that looks upon his worshipper,
Ha, ha! keep time: how sour sweet music is,
I am ambitious for a motley coat.
Some certain edicts and some strait decrees
Take up the bodies: such a sight as this
Signior Baptista, my business asketh haste,
O, let me speak!
Is couched in the woodbine coverture.
Canst with thine eyes at once see good and evil,
sea mocked them; and how the poor gentleman roared
What! loss of some pitch'd battle against Warwick?
To lock such rascal counters from his friends,
Titus, prepare thy aged eyes to weep;
You have sworn patience.
heart is full of woe:' O, play me some merry dump,
thank my God it holds yet.
'Tis not our husbandry.
Shall blow ten thousand souls to heaven or hell;
There in the full convive we: afterwards,
In faith, he is a worthy gentleman,
He knows thy thought:
Because you know, my lord, my mother lives.
Which throes thee much to yield.
O, make for Tarsus!
I have heard of such. What slave art thou?
Thou hast years upon thee; and thou art too full
When the false Troyan under sail was seen,
Not a whit, i' faith; I lack some of thy instinct.
According to your ladyship's impose,
O, flatter me; for love delights in praises.
Than their offence can weigh down by the dram;
AENEAS passes
We have: whereupon the Earl of Worcester
That Henry liveth still: but were he dead,
But more for that in low simplicity
Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
The heavens,
At your pleasure, my good lord. Who's within
not yet: the roof of this court is too high to be
That he'll enjoin me to.
Taste of your wine and see what cates you have;
What dangers, by his highness' fail of issue,
grace's tharborough: but I would see his own person
Let them not cease, but with a din confused
what remedy? As there is no true cuckold but
Thou hadst been toss'd from wrong to injury,
O, pardon me, Signior Gremio; I would fain be doing.
observance; engrossed opportunities to meet her;
the eleven I paid.
Fortune speed us!
Or not at all.
Edward for Edward pays a dying debt.
signify this to his doctor; for, for me to put him
And every day do honour to her grave:
And we cast away moan:
Shall seem a dream and fruitless vision,
Set from our o'ermatch'd forces forth for aid.
The king, sir, hath laid, that in a dozen passes
What being more known grows worse, to smother it.
Have often shamed our sex.
O, my dear lord,--
How now, Sir Proteus! how now, Thurio!
And finish all foul thoughts. O Antony,
For you shall hence upon your wedding-day:
Besides the things that we have heard and seen,
That must we also. What it is, my Caius,
Prescribe to other as each other's leech.
[Beneath]  Swear.
sighs of Octavia blow the fire up in Caesar; and, as
That is done too, sir; only 'cover' is the word.
My lord?
Nor great Alcides, nor the god of war,
Which, mellow'd by the stealing hours of time,
My Lord Northumberland, see them dispatch'd.
What's the matter, sir?
The gods defend him from so great a shame!
By some vile forfeit of untimely death.
That, knowing sin within, will touch the gate.
A maid! and be so martial!
Give renew'd fire to our extincted spirits
Thou stickest a dagger in me: I shall never see my
If not, Signior Gremio:
Now are we well prepared to know the pleasure
Friends, that have been thus forward in my right,
SCENE III. Brutus's tent.
Stand, stand, and fight!
To each word a warbling note:
You train me to offend you; get you in:
And raught not to five weeks when he came to
me in manners the rather to express myself. You
Orsino's mistress and his fancy's queen.
And tear the stain'd skin off my harlot-brow
A royal train, believe me. These I know:
For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune:
There is indeed; which they would have your grace
To where you are bound, you must inquire your way,
Be drain'd! Let me embrace thee, Ajax:
Stand forth, and with bold spirit relate what you,
With Lady Margery, your midwife there,
For nothing can be ill, if she be well.
Petruchio, stand by a while.
And as wondrous affable and as bountiful
That I had any light from thee of this.
Would they else be content to die?
Yet here, Laertes! aboard, aboard, for shame!
Be more myself.
die. I have letters that my son will be here
Of Brabant and of Orleans, shall make forth,
Now, as thou lovest me, do him not that wrong
is a great argument of falsehood, if I love. And
Did in your name receive it: pardon the
Thy lips, those kissing cherries, tempting grow!
Of noble having and of royal hope,
And then go to my inn and dine with me?
Thou wilt but add increase unto my wrath.
Enter KENT, GLOUCESTER, and EDMUND
But, ah, I will not! yet I love thee well;
Good George, be not angry: I knew of your purpose;
And know not now what name to call myself!
Boult!
Fetch the will hither, and we shall determine
place: at length they came to the broom-staff to
The warrants for yourself; take heed to't.
The god of soldiers,
Here come the lords.
Though justice be thy plea, consider this,
That I have blown this coal: I do deny it:
If you affect him, sister, here I swear
They that reap must sheaf and bind;
obstruction in the blood, this cross-gartering; but
The children must
Enacted wonders with his sword and lance:
Thus with my hat, and sigh and say 'amen,'
How long hast thou to serve, Francis?
What should this be?
This fellow pecks up wit as pigeons pease,
That is my office, for my father's sake.
And welcome, nephews, from successful wars,
Welcome, good Clarence; this is brotherlike.
you shall hear music and see the gentleman that you asked for.
Thou canst not come to me: I come to thee.
The handkerchief!
Meantime, but think how I may do thee good,
SCENE VIII. Another part of the plains.
She should in ground unsanctified have lodged
In answer of which claim, the prince our master
Could never go so slow: I have heard of
Whereas no glory's got to overcome.
Like lies disdain'd in the reporting.
This Trojan scorns us; or the men of Troy
O me, what hast thou done?
Sir, by your leave.
Without his roe, like a dried herring: flesh, flesh,
Flourish
Than Aquitaine so gelded as it is.
How long a time lies in one little word!
And I am constant. Titus Lartius, thou
Say you?
More than you doubt the change on't, that prefer
Sir, I shall study deserving.
So I, admiring of his qualities:
When turtles tread, and rooks, and daws,
crave your assistance.
To thee I pray; sweet Clifford, pity me!
leave his honour and her together. Go thy ways.
So worthless peasants bargain for their wives,
Keep me in patience, and with ripen'd time
masters! fly, masters! Help!
He falls on the bed
Makes him to send; that thereby he may gather
The letter, as I live, with all the business
Henry of Hereford, Lancaster, and Derby,
Nothing.
off, I would prick your guts a little, in good
mirror up to nature; to show virtue her own feature,
Whispers
modest assurance if you be the lady of the house,
In brief, sir, sith it your pleasure is,
Hath slain their governors, surprised our forts,
I must obey.
What stuff 'tis made of, whereof it is born,
And you, sir! Would you speak with me?
What, art thou come? On, gentlemen; away!
her to-morrow in the congregation, where I should
'Tis doubt he will be: letters came last night
Thou foolish thing!
that he is?
Thus will I fold them one on another:
Of other your new pranks. I do beseech you
May I, sweet lady, beg a kiss of you?
And not to spend it so unneighbourly!
you should have been put together with so mortal a
Exit BASTARD
players that I have seen play, and heard others
O Lord, sir, let me live, or let me see my death!
have by underhand means laboured to dissuade him from
This Armado is a Spaniard, that keeps here in court;
I'll prove her fair, or talk till doomsday here.
To be or none or little; though a devil
Lady, by yonder blessed moon I swear
In thy foul throat thou liest: Queen Margaret saw
Exist, and be a member of his love
And punish that before that he would punish.
Re-enter the EARL OF DOUGLAS
Render me worthy of this noble wife!
Now, infidel, I have you on the hip.
I find thou art no less than fame hath bruited
They are devised by you; or else you suffer
piece of Eve's flesh as any in Illyria.
Nay, good my lord, be not angry.
Thrice to thine and thrice to mine
To see this business. To-morrow next
Than could his war resisted.
O, let me live!
Forgot you! no, sir: I could not forget you, for I
Which I have seen thee careful to observe,
For your life you durst not!
A better speech was never spoke before;
He was not taken well; he had not dined:
Press me not, beseech you, so.
By the gods, I have not:
hundred and fifty; Sebastian, so many; Corambus, so
Your voice shall be as strong as any man's
thee, Orlando, for my husband: there's a girl goes
An emperor in Rome thus overborne,
Would buy this for a lie!
I do repent me, as it is an evil,
Upon our territories; and have already
Enter STEPHANO, singing: a bottle in his hand
Worthy enough a herdsman: yea, him too,
The king doth keep his revels here to-night:
He hath the jewel of my life in hold,
I learned it in England, where, indeed, they are
I pray you, speak with me: you shall at least
The fountain from the which my current runs,
Incensed the lords o' the council, that he is,
To cozen fortune and be honourable
What do you say, Cesario? Good my lord,--
Conrade, I say!
Come on;
the dog all this while sheds not a tear nor speaks a
As glorious to this night, being o'er my head
To render up the great seal presently
Else could you not have motion; but sure, that sense
Exeunt Gentlemen
Made glorious summer by this sun of York;
A pretty tale: it may be you have heard it;
I swear.
Away, my lord, away!
From Alcibiades to Timon's cave,
The king will always think him in our debt,
great maker of cuckolds.
So, so, we draw together.
Must make perforce an universal prey,
Orlando, my liege; the youngest son of Sir Rowland de Boys.
You that have been so tenderly officious
How now!
That they combine not there.
Like to a trusty squire did run away:
Does it not, think'st thee, stand me now upon--
We'll set thy statue in some holy place,
The truth being known,
Till I have told this slander of his blood,
Shall seize one half his goods; the other half
He lent me counsel and I lent him eyes.
That horse that thou so often hast bestrid,
Not any yet:
married un garcon, a boy; un paysan, by gar, a boy;
It is perchance that you yourself were saved.
Here, on her breast,
No, by my troth, not so much as will serve to
Thus far; and so farewell.
Sir Christopher, tell Richmond this from me:
That you to-day promised to tell me of?
My lord, kneel down with me; Lavinia, kneel;
Art thou sure of this?
A long flourish. They all cry 'Marcius! Marcius!'  cast up their caps and lances: COMINIUS and LARTIUS stand bare
SCENE III. The same. The Forum.
Liver of blaspheming Jew,
Shall Caesar send a lie?
already I have foolishly suffered.
gurnet. I have misused the king's press damnably.
Why, he comes in like a perjure, wearing papers.
that she sends you to prison hither?
And let the subject see, to make them know
Do you confess the bond?
My most redoubted father,
In troth, I think I should; and undo't when I had
brother is royally entertained by Leonato: and I
De arm, madame.
Calm thee, and bear the faults of Titus' age,
A cunning man did calculate my birth
Most sincerely.
Care of your food and living; and, believe it,
And to the strict'st decrees I'll write my name.
could be set up against mortality.
Of what I feel: I am all patience.
The music there!--I pray you, give her air.
Whom worthily you would have now succeed.
swear by your beards that I am a knave.
O loyal father of a treacherous son!
After well enter'd soldiers, to return
O, that's the case of the shepherd's son: hang him,
And convoy is assistant, do not sleep,
Stands with the snares of war to tangle thee:
I trust ere long to choke thee with thine own
To drench the Capitol; but that they would
In these confusions. Heaven and yourself
Upon the sweetest flower of all the field.
I neither care for the world nor your general: for
With those gross taunts I often have endured.
Music still, with shouts
Been laden with like frailties which before
I do beseech your majesty, impute his words
Having fully dined before.
Honour and policy, like unsever'd friends,
Be as well neighbour'd, pitied, and relieved,
Bless you, fair shrew.
The which shall turn you to no further harm
Call you? what is your will?
Truly, fortune's displeasure is but sluttish, if it
stars with oaths,
We'll bring your grace e'en to the edge o' the shore,
Hath sorted out a sudden day of joy,
brought to Leonato's: I will go before and show
Thy nephew and right royal sovereign.
And you, sir.
This closing with him fits his lunacy
My life as soon: I do defy thee, France.
will is, it should be so returned: if it be worth
Go, Mistress Ford,
Your sharpest deeds of malice on this town:
Doth she not think me an old murderer,
Prithee be cheerful: know'st thou not, the duke
Ah, no, no, no, it is mine only son!
Which I could fancy more than any other.
Monsieur le Fer.
Give me those flowers. Do as I bid thee, go.
How goes the world, that I am thus encounter'd
How is't, Laertes?
But I had rather fast from all four days
wert thou a horse, thou wouldst be seized by the
SCENE IV. The forest.
Myself a former fortune.
The day serves well for them now. I have heard it
Stirr'd up by God, thus boldly for his king:
Their wonted liveries, and the mazed world,
Each day still better other's happiness;
I take it, your own business calls on you
How long have you been of this profession?
Why?
countermands
Why then preferr'd you not your sums and bills,
Exit TYRREL
Whose towers bore heads so high they kiss'd the clouds,
Say, 'pardon' first, and afterwards 'stand up.'
Were not so rich a jewel. Thou wast a soldier
I cannot hear of any that did see her.
Madam, within; but never man so changed.
I know that; but I would have thee hence, and here again.
With my two daughters' dowers digest this third:
Out of our question wipe him.
'Tis truly so.
With that which, but by being so retired,
Set all upon me, mighty sovereign.
Cried fame and honour on him. What's the matter?
Wherefore a guard of chosen shot I had,
You beg more than 'word,' then. Cox my passion!
The English army, that divided was
The pangs of barr'd affections, though the king
Re-enter Players with recorders
Your multiplying spawn how can he flatter--
An army have I muster'd in my thoughts,
entirely drunk. We have very oft awaked him, as if
Ay, and a bold one, that dare look on that
All the whole time
woman when Queen Guinover of Britain was a little
Even then will rush to knowledge. Go: fresh horses!
That shall salute our rightful sovereign
For God's sake, lords, give signal to the fight.
The trees, though summer, yet forlorn and lean,
I embrace these conditions; let us have articles
Hold, take this letter; early in the morning
So say I	methinks you are sadder.
Under a hand accursed!
It's no matter for that, so she sleep not in her talk.
Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up;
The advantage of his absence took the king
And when I have my meed, I must away;
As dogs upon their masters, worrying you.
from's time,
Richard, I will create thee Duke of Gloucester,
He can at pleasure stint their melody:
Such as were grown to credit by the wars;
Ay, marry, I'll be gone about it straight.
Exeunt CYMBELINE and Lords
appear stubborn to him; for she incites me to that
She was, good Curtis, before this frost: but, thou
What shall I do? I'll creep up into the chimney.
But, as the devil would have it, three misbegotten
Exit, dragged off by Soldiers
more in joy at first hearing he was a man-child
To CORIOLANUS
I bear i' the state; and nature does require
As holy oil, Edward Confessor's crown,
A thousand, sir,
Will render you no remedy, this ring
Do you pity him? no, he deserves no pity. Wilt
Tell on thy mind; I say thy child shall live.
Of all be hated, but the most of me!
What are you?
In killing creatures vile, as cats and dogs,
Black, fearful, comfortless and horrible.
By this, I hope, she hath a son for me.
Than thee, all noble Marcius. Let me twine
But, ere I go, Hastings and Montague,
tell you how.
But when I tell him he hates flatterers,
Before him through the city: he forbids it,
Become some women best, so that there be not
Not that, I hope, which you received of me.
From the excess of laughter. Here he comes:
Methinks you are my glass, and not my brother:
My lord protector needs will have it so.
Brought to this town by that most famous warrior,
I'll know his grievance, or be much denied.
A poor Egyptian yet. The queen my mistress,
Hence grew the general wreck and massacre;
By gar, you are de coward, de Jack dog, John ape.
To the felt absence now I feel a cause:
And something lean to cutpurse of quick hand.
Question: why, an hour in clamour and a quarter in
I will wink on her to consent, my lord, if you will
I hear thou must, and nothing may prorogue it,
Three parts of that receipt I had for Calais
Five summers have I spent in furthest Greece,
unskilful singer; he kept not time.
to the dead. But will it not live with the living?
But you, my knight and guest;
But tell me true, will't be a match?
'Have I no friend will rid me of this living fear?'
There shall we consummate our spousal rites.
With slow but stately pace kept on his course,
Pray God he be not angry.
My queen! my mistress!
Forego the easier.
believe,' said she, 'for he swore a thing to me on
A time that lovers' flights doth still conceal,
Take hands, a bargain!
Nothing confutes me but eyes, and nobody sees me.
The worst of words.
He says his name is Master Fer.
My sons, God knows what hath bechanced them:
From the rude sea's enraged and foamy mouth
SCENE V. The same. Another room.
And better would it fit Achilles much
Cheated of feature by dissembling nature,
Unto Bianca, fair and virtuous.
And all that are assembled in this place,
I, where would you choose it?
I fear no uncles dead.
As, if it can, I will presume in you--
I can keep honest counsel, ride, run, mar a curious
And shut myself up in some other course,
So oft as that shall be,
Dost thou not suspect my place? dost thou not
Or, if thou wilt hold longer argument,
And, as the sleeping soldiers in the alarm,
How say you, Signior Gremio?
Upon your favours swims with fins of lead
Who bates mine honour shall not know my coin.
addition I can: I will not be long from you.
ta'en you newly into his grace; where it is
And all cry, Hector! Hector's dead! O Hector!
The name of Antony; it was divided
Who, with dagger of lath,
Tongue-tied ambition, not replying, yielded
Kneels
True:
Who of my people hold him in delay?
Duke Frederick, hearing how that every day
Romans, make way: the good Andronicus.
With two pitch-balls stuck in her face for eyes;
have worn your eyes almost out in the service, you
I am the unhappy subject of these quarrels.
if you be he, sir, I desire some confidence with
To your direction. Hubert, what news with you?
Pray you, where lies Sir Proteus?
Our worser genius can, shall never melt
Upon his Irish expedition;
His army is a ragged multitude
Have I not heard the sea puff'd up with winds
Perform 't, or else we damn thee.'
You are the better at proverbs, by how much 'A
And I'll say nothing.
What is thy news then?
Does not attend my taking. Whiles I may 'scape,
jangling of the bells, that he should never have
Enjoy thy plainness,
These couchings and these lowly courtesies
Erect his statue and worship it,
He is the wiser man, master doctor: he is a curer of
I cleft his beaver with a downright blow:
I know your master's pleasure and he mine:
And prompt me, that my tongue may utter forth
Exeunt
SCENE II. Camp near Sardis. Before BRUTUS's tent.
Look, here it is.
Where is thy leather apron and thy rule?
You are but newly planted in your throne;
And so deep sticks it in my penitent heart
For one to thrust his hand between his teeth,
Hang the trifle, woman! take the honour. What is
Whilst my gross flesh sinks downward, here to die.
If you desire the spleen, and will laugh yourself
His time doth take.
of mine; where, if, before repast, it shall please
The ship, sir, the slip; can you not conceive?
You are the happier woman.
Older in practise, abler than yourself
And feast upon her eyes? What is't I dream on?
Thou, Richard, shalt to the Duke of Norfolk,
To the whole race of mankind, high and low! Amen.
Dies
Resembling majesty, which, being touch'd and tried,
And, I beseech you, hear me, who profess
And lay your hands again upon my sword:
[To ESCALUS]  What you have spoke I pardon: sit you down:
Why then, the mustard without the beef.
As to put metal in restrained means
Alack, my fellows, what should I say to you?
I then did ask of her her changeling child;
Exeunt
I had rather be a country servant-maid
Their cheeks are paper. Why, what read you there
Nothing that I respect, my gracious lord.
Let me not name it to you, you chaste stars!--
Plotted and 'greed on for my happiness.
No swearing.
Do not say so, my lord.
My mistress show'd me thee and thy dog and thy bush.
ANTONY, OCTAVIUS, and LEPIDUS, seated at a table
I do not so secure me in the error,
filthy officer he is in those suggestions for the
Hath oftentimes upbraided me withal:
She moves
How, how, Lychorida!
And mar the seeds within! Lift up thy looks:
Take some remembrance of us, as a tribute,
Forbear till this company be past.
Kinsmen, his sorrows are past remedy.
To bate me a full year.
Katharine Queen of England, come into the court.
spectatorship, and crueller in suffering; behold now
reason. Come on, Trinculo, let us sing.
religion, their heads are both one; they may jowl
Scripture? The Scripture says 'Adam digged:'
As till that time I shall not pity thee.
And lady-smocks all silver-white
Why then, by God--
A plague upon you, murderers, traitors all!
Pluck stout men's pillows from below their heads:
are to me nothing, so in nothing bless them, and to
see't. Did these bones cost no more the breeding,
Men and men's fortunes could I frankly use
censured here in the city, I mean of us o' the
To see't mine eyes are blasted.
And never look upon thy face again.
Good madam, hear me.
Here's goodly gear!
Why, so didst thou: seem they grave and learned?
Be you and I behind an arras then;
Singing
come not near Casca; have an eye to Cinna, trust not
Upon their spotted souls for this offence!
To calm this tempest whirling in the court;
Which else should free have wrought.
My gracious lord,--
Yet, dread Priam,
have sufferd all this. My suit then is desperate;
As many vouched rarities are.
their ears,
And those swearings keep as true in soul
To guard a title that was rich before,
O, but I fear--How lost you company?
Enter CAMILLO and ARCHIDAMUS
A document in madness, thoughts and remembrance fitted.
To make the dear loss, have I means much weaker
'Tis meet I should be used so, very meet.
VARRO and CLAUDIUS lie down
And in the greatness of my word, you die.
Mark but my fall, and that that ruin'd me.
A thousand oaths, an ocean of his tears
Hope is a curtal dog in some affairs:
Know of me then, for now I speak to some purpose,
What dost thou know?
Did he confess it?
Dost thou love hawking? thou hast hawks will soar
I had a Richard too, and thou didst kill him;
SCENE III. A room in Polonius' house.
Make trivial price of serious things we have,
Of this good day and of this gracious meeting,
May seem as shy, as grave, as just, as absolute
Come to the pedlar;
She had the wrong. But what said Henry's queen?
To pluck proud Lucius from the warlike Goths.
O,'tis fair play.
shall have tribute of me; the adventurous knight
Was feverous and did shake.
Your eyes are lode-stars; and your tongue's sweet air
Exeunt MISTRESS PAGE, MISTRESS FORD, and MISTRESS QUICKLY
Not here in presence.
Good morning to you, fair and gracious daughter.
Content; and the argument shall be thy running away.
Will you give me money, captain?
We will bestow ourselves.
And what confederacy have you with the traitors
Sometimes intrude not? who has a breast so pure,
was a star danced, and under that was I born.
Buckles in his sum of age;
Throwing restraint upon us; or say they strike us,
Heaven forgive our sins
And here my brother, weeping at my woes.
You patience to endure, and true repentance
they are for the town's end, to beg during life.
what marriage is: this fellow will but join you
and by and by in as high a flow as the ridge of the gallows.
As it is common for the younger sort
Strike all that look upon with marvel. Come,
I do not always follow lover, elder brother and
Pompey, return it again: you shall have time to
Even like an o'ergrown lion in a cave,
That needs must light on this ingratitude.
I pray you stand good father to me now,
you: nay, I pray you, let me go.
What was the speech among the Londoners
And let mischance be slave to patience.
Frank nature, rather curious than in haste,
And now, sweet emperor, be blithe again,
Follows me every where, I know not why:
Where art thou, proud Demetrius? speak thou now.
For as I am, I live upon the rack.
And though we lay these honours on this man,
think what a man is: let her consider his frailty,
ANTIPHOLUS
Not as death's dart, being laugh'd at; his
If what in rest you have in right you hold,
hangman shall execute it. Come your ways. We'll
and wouldst adventure
perpend: civet is of a baser birth than tar, the
Nor ever heard, nor ever did suspect.
Let your remembrance apply to Banquo;
Keep thy word: fare thee well.
Briefly, sir.
Were't not that, by great preservation,
Do't not, thou split'st thine own.
Ay, every joint should seem to curse and ban:
Therefore, to be possess'd with double pomp,
[Aside]  And supper too, although thou know'st it not.
Will you dine with me to-morrow?
You're welcome. What's your will? Give us leave, drawer.
I thank them; and would send them back the plague,
Exit PHILOSTRATE
[Within]  What, 's all the doors open here?
I to my grave, where peace and rest lie with me!
How should I be revenged? If this be true,--
Sad tidings bring I to you out of France,
Enter PETRUCHIO and HORTENSIO with meat
I sold not Maine, I lost not Normandy,
If love be rough with you, be rough with love;
I'll make a journey twice as far, to enjoy
queen's picture. Come, follow us: we'll be thy
Exit
Behold our human actions, as they do,
Remember in my prayers.
Master Brook, I will first make bold with your
SCENE III. The garden of the castle.
What counsel give you? whither shall we fly?
How fares my lord? speak, Beaufort, to
As low as she would wish it.
is dat knave Rugby?
Where have I been? Where am I? Fair daylight?
And there I stood amazed for a while,
The smallest worm will turn being trodden on,
Away, captains! let's get us from the walls;
Or else it must go wrong with you and me:
And found the blessedness of being little:
I owe you none till I receive the chain.
Sweet Phebe, do not scorn me; do not, Phebe;
considered, as too much I cannot, to be more
Then his good report should have been my son; I
Have wrought the easy-melting king like wax.
And soon I'll rid you from the fear of them.
Belike they had some notice of the people,
Against the undivulged pretence I fight
The bearer knows not, but commends itself
Must I give way and room to your rash choler?
Mad let us grant him, then: and now remains
greatness back?
To reason most absurd: whose common theme
Wash'd it with tears? Hence from her! let her die.
My Desdemona must I leave to thee:
You have made fair work!
Gentlemen, content ye; I am resolved:
Well said, my hearts! You are a princox; go:
And, in his mantle muffling up his face,
He that sweetest rose will find
My lord the Duke of Buckingham, and Earl
A thousand irreligious cursed hours,
I guess thy message. Is the queen deliver'd?
Here is a warrant from
lack no barns.
Timon is dead, who hath outstretch'd his span:
And, by all likelihood, some cheer is toward.
Fie, what a slug is Hastings, that he comes not
I can no more.
That they shall think we are accomplished
For which, the most high gods not minding longer
Immediately to us.
Sir, this should be answer'd.
Come hither, spirit:
Here are the articles of contracted peace
Were the world mine, Demetrius being bated,
Forestall prescience, and esteem no act
bids me, though you say nothing. Mum, mum,
And how thou pleasest, God, dispose the day!
She is a woman, therefore may be woo'd;
That screws me from my true place in your favour,
bowling, it will please plentifully.
Solemn and strange music
The best I had, a princess wrought it me,
Tester I'll have in pouch when thou shalt lack,
knits her brows.
the feats of a lion: he hath indeed better
And dupp'd the chamber-door;
As did the fatal brand Althaea burn'd
earth. Would it not grieve a woman to be
The king and queen and all are coming down.
Hold off your hands.
For they have fought for Rome, and all in vain;
SCENE III. Plain between the camps.
Shall have judicious hearing. Stand, Aufidius,
counsel. I'll in.
If my shirt were bloody, then to shift it. Have I hurt him?
No masque to-night: the wind is come about;
second day of audience. When you are hearing a
Into his ruin'd ears, and thus deliver:
Whose disposition, all the world well knows,
The fee-simple! O simple!
For Christian service and true chivalry,
How not your own desire?
Go we to council. Let Achilles sleep:
A third more opulent than your sisters? Speak.
Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,
I come to tell you things sith then befall'n.
Who, queasy with his insolence
must come off; I'll sauce them. Come.
In human action and capacity,
As e'er I did commit.
You have of these pedlars, that have more in them
How, how, pray you? You amaze me: I would have I
I come by note, to give and to receive.
And live with Richmond, from the reach of hell
What mean'st thou, Suffolk; tell me, what are these?
Then take him up and manage well the jest:
Follow us to the court. Thou churl, for this time,
I will bestow you where you shall have time
All's well that ends well; still the fine's the crown;
This murderous shaft that's shot
Scarce serves to quench my furnace-burning heart:
It is the emperor, madam.
Now all the service I require of them
O Lord, Lord! it is a hard matter for friends to
My mother had a maid call'd Barbara:
Familiarly shall call thy Dorset brother;
The duke's to blame in this; 'twill be ill taken.
Father, what news? what is the prince's doom?
But, were I you, he never should be mine.
I must confess that I have heard so much,
But herein mean I to enrich my pain,
Shall we go, coz?
But this most foul, strange and unnatural.
Now, whilst your purpled hands do reek and smoke,
For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
The garboils she awaked; at the last, best:
SCENE I. Padua. A room in BAPTISTA'S house.
Was made a wonder and a pointing-stock
SCENE I. Padua. Before LUCENTIO'S house.
near me; noble, or not I for an angel; of good
And suffer'd my command.
This story shall the good man teach his son;
And watch withal; for, but I be deceived,
Pardon, goddess of the night,
Lie where the light foam the sea may beat
And he will make the face of heaven so fine
Who loses and who wins; who's in, who's out;
And mine, I promise you; were't not for shame,
blind bow-boy's butt-shaft: and is he a man to
Fight: excursions. Enter KING HENRY VI, QUEEN MARGARET, and others
Creep in our ears: soft stillness and the night
You breathe in vain.
drum struck up this afternoon: 'tis, as it were, a
You lie, in faith; for you are call'd plain Kate,
You have respected; stopp'd your ears against
No, not so much perdition as an hair
I am ashamed. O heavens! what have I done?
Enter AUTOLYCUS, singing
Cheerly, my lord	how fares your grace?
May call it back again. Well, believe this,
Nor bite the lip, as angry wenches will,
Forgive the comment that my passion made
Kisses them. IRAS falls and dies
You have a Trojan prisoner, call'd Antenor,
And that his lady mourns at his disease:
Athens is become a forest of beasts.
at his dog:
That answer to them: would you in their serving,
basin and ewer to-night. Flaminius, honest
O, sir, when he shall hear of your approach,
All his in dedication; for his sake
And Crispin Crispian shall ne'er go by,
Why, Antony.
Had stomach for them all.
I took a costly jewel from my neck,
I shall not be his wife.
What his high hatred would effect wants not
Thou wast that did preserve me. Thou didst smile.
Ne'er to pluck thee from thy thorn;
You say very true, scauld knave, when God's will is:
I saw Jove's bird, the Roman eagle, wing'd
Indeed, no, by your patience; I'll not over the
service, look you, sir, he bid me knock him and rap
And flourish'd after, I'ld not do't; but since
Confess thy treasons ere thou fly the realm;
And I challenge law: attorneys are denied me;
You say, you'll marry me, if I be willing?
ACT IV
Sound on into the drowsy race of night;
Thy hopeful service perish too: good Cromwell,
He would not!
Shook as the earth did quake;
That God, the law, my honour and her love,
Rebellion, flat rebellion!
Best fitteth my degree or your condition
I deserve it. How now! whither bear you this?
The wish would make else an unquiet house.
videlicit, in a love-cause. Troilus had his brains
Enter a Soldier, running
The foul fiend bites my back.
Harry, how fares your uncle?
Where is it, Jack? where is it?
Which was before barr'd up with ribs of iron!
Who intercepts my expedition?
demonstration of grief?
Bid Salisbury and Warwick come to me.
Bold of your worthiness, we single you
Whipt first, sir, and hanged after.
Receive so many, and all willingly:
Titus, when wert thou wont to walk alone,
O, pardon, sir, it doth; and yon gray lines
It gives me wonder great as my content
Here after excursions, enter the Herald of France, with trumpets, to the gates
And think thee worthy of an empress' love:
An Englishman?
In quantity equals not one of yours:
Farewell, my sons: see that you make her sure.
antique, or firework. Now, understanding that the
You have taken it wiselier than I meant you should.
Is in the field, and still his power increaseth.
And presently all humbled kiss the rod!
Heap'd upon me, poor undeserver, I
Your reason?
'Tis with cares.
Of that dark hour. Resolve yourselves apart:
Until his army be dismiss'd from him.
From such a cause as fills mine eyes with tears
SCENE III. Pomfret Castle.
Nor make replies of loathness: take the hint
Here lies the east: doth not the day break here?
'Twill be a good way; and to-morrow the wrestling is.
and I paid nothing for it neither, but was paid for
To prick thy finger, though to wound his heart:
Do you hear how we are shent for keeping your
My music playing far off, I will betray
Enter Citizens,  and c
Of Alcibiades the approaches wild,
How now, lady!
If it were damnable, he being so wise,
The noble Antony.
To lie like pawns lock'd up in chests and trunks,
If it were so,--
Exeunt
Or lay these bones in an unworthy urn,
Go to, then; you come to me, and you say
By night frequents my house. I am a man
That hugs his kicky-wicky here at home,
Your servants ever
To arms invasive? shall a beardless boy,
Atalanta's heels. Will you sit down with me? and
Under the tide: but now I breathe again
I know I can do it.
O Bottom, thou art changed! what do I see on thee?
Good my lord,
But if there be not in our Grecian host
Might bear him company in the quest of him:
Exit BIONDELLO
Come, will this wood take fire?
But in a fainter kind:--O, not like me;
Believe me, thou talkest of an admirable conceited
I humbly thank you, sir: a truth's a truth, the
In rage dismiss'd my father from the court;
Would I not leap upright.
Sound drums and trumpets! farewell sour annoy!
To scorn at our solemnity this night.
Let me be used with honour: strew me over
There is a change upon you.
Cousin of Exeter, frowns, words and threats
To marry her, I'll add three thousand crowns
If I thou protector of this damned strumpet--
Pray you, sir, whose daughter?
He will remain so.
Repair me with thy presence, Silvia;
The several caskets to this noble prince.
In their continuance will not feel themselves.
Ensues his piteous and unpitied end:
a puppet or an aglet-baby; or an old trot with ne'er
And here pronounce free pardon to them all
Told the sad story of my father's death,
Stanley, I will requite thy forwardness.
E'en so thou outrunnest grace. Fool, I will go with
SCENE I. The British camp, near Dover.
nor garlic, for we are to utter sweet breath; and I
Of thirty sail: and now they do restem
They often feel a world of restless cares:
Exeunt some with KING EDWARD IV and QUEEN MARGARET
potato-finger, tickles these together! Fry, lechery, fry!
Nor nothing monstrous neither?
As the Spirit speaks, SOUTHWELL writes the answer
Thou speak'st aright;
The duke was dumb and could not speak a word.
We should have else desired your good advice,
Marry, we were sent for to the justices.
ACT II
Had York and Somerset brought rescue in,
But Romeo's name speaks heavenly eloquence.
The mortal gate of the city, which he painted
Exeunt Officers with MISTRESS OVERDONE
Yea, marry, dost thou hear, Balthasar? I pray thee,
And make proud Saturnine and his empress
I have seen better faces in my time
Your comfort makes the rescue.
By wicked Dionyza.
Some of them will fall to-morrow, I hope.
All may be well; but, if God sort it so,
And should she thus be stol'n away from you,
We have not yet set down this day of triumph.
I do know
That done, our day of marriage shall be yours;
The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee,
I'll be hanged first: thou art deceived in me,
Be so received. But thus: if powers divine
Make no more offers, use no farther means,
hath given it his whore.
Enter YOUNG CLIFFORD
Were a sufficient briber for his life.
What, Octavia?
With very much content, my lord; and I wish it
And try your hap against the Irishmen?
Cowardly fled, not having struck one stroke.
So perfect and so peerless, are created
I think nothing, my lord.
I cry you mercy. Here's Cassio hurt by villains.
But, better look'd into, he truly found
should I say to him? I was then frugal of my
The bitter disposition of the time
reflection should hurt her.
If I do not, never trust me, take it how you will.
And stands colossus-wise, waving his beam,
Let us sit down and mark their yelping noise;
Whiter than new snow on a raven's back.
Now, for this night, let's harbour here in York;
A stranger Pyramus than e'er played here.
How! will she none? doth she not give us thanks?
O, full of danger is the Duke of Gloucester!
The imminent death of twenty thousand men,
And in their pale dull mouths the gimmal bit
Bless you, my fortunate lady!
Died every day she lived. Fare thee well!
Should learn, being taught, forbearance.
Can you nominate in order now the degrees of the lie?
My lord, this is a fond and desperate creature,
Which is the hot condition of their blood;
I will, captain: farewell.
head; nay, prithee, be covered. How old are you, friend?
That are vow-fellows with this virtuous duke?
Why, what you will.
To call upon him.
Call'd Marina
Say, uncle Gloucester, if our brother come,
for; we shall be flouting; we cannot hold.
How!
The unowed interest of proud-swelling state.
I prattle out of fashion, and I dote
No.
dying, I with things newborn. Here's a sight for
that's mended is but patched: virtue that
Who, when he knows thou art the empress' babe,
That is not blinded by her majesty?
Than in my greatness covet to be hid,
What's dumb in show I'll plain with speech.
But he that filches from me my good name
sleekly combed their blue coats brushed and their
A moiety of that mass of moan to come.
They all start
With all my heart, I'll send the emperor My hand:
A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
SCENE I. A part of the Grecian camp.
what is thy name? discuss.
You'll take it ill.
Is not my teeming date drunk up with time?
As kill a king!
One that rejoices in the common wreck,
I hold my most malicious foe, and think not
The skull that bred them in the sepulchre.
Nay, these are almost thoroughly persuaded;
Thy murderous falchion smoking in his blood;
In what have I offended you? what cause
way for you, if you do take a thief, is to let him
If one so rude and of so mean condition
the tired horse his rider. But, damosella virgin,
Then go thou forth;
To spit on thee again, to spurn thee too.
To rouse a lion than to start a hare!
Shall out-tongue his complaints. 'Tis yet to know,--
Give the all-hail to thee and cry 'Be blest
I did not kill your husband.
If you speak truth, for their poor mistress' sake;
Then let not him be slander'd with revolt.
Does tire the ingener.
And I will go and purse the ducats straight,
To hear this rich reprisal is so nigh
Drum and Colours
Intends you for his swift ambassador,
Where that and other specialties are bound:
In this strange stare?
This creature's no such thing.
Worthy Montano, you were wont be civil;
may easily put it off at court: he that cannot make
If thou art changed to aught, 'tis to an ass.
For time is like a fashionable host
Look, when I serve him so, he takes it ill.
That in alliance, amity and oaths,
And fall of many kings. But fear not yet
heaviness: of this contradiction you shall now be
And all his lands and goods be confiscate.
'Do't: the letter
Hangs on the cutting short that fraudful man.
We cannot without circumstance descry.
Know his gross patchery, love him, feed him,
Lie tumbling in my barefoot way and mount
If there were reason for these miseries,
duke's officer. Prove this, thou wicked Hannibal, or
no. And, my lord, he desires you, that if the king
SCENE I. Before the house of ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus.
reverend youth; and I praise God for you.
silence in it; and the place answer to convenience.
a farmer's dog bark at a beggar?
Prince Bassianus, leave to plead my deeds:
midnight is to be up betimes; and 'diluculo
I pray you, bear vitness that me have stay six or
In every wound of Caesar that should move
This is my fault: as for the rest appeall'd,
Enter Ambassadors of France
Beat me!
To buy and sell with groats, to show bare heads
Have lopp'd and hew'd and made thy body bare
Aside to PORTIA
replenished; he is only an animal, only sensible in
To eke it and to draw it out in length,
Here at the door; I pray you, call them in.
Meantime your cheeks do counterfeit our roses;
Exeunt the followers of SATURNINUS
Call you me daughter? now, I promise you
Bound with triumphant garlands will I come
But, like the owner of a foul disease,
So happy be the issue, brother England,
I say, no;
What, you look merrily!
Your faithful friends o' the suburbs? We shall have
You pity not the state, nor the remembrance
Where is that slave
Thus, with his speechless hand: what he would do,
Yield, rustic mountaineer.
Go, go, up to the leads; the lord mayor knocks.
Good sir, I do in friendship counsel you
You know there wants no junkets at the feast.
And till he tell the truth,
But stay'd and made the western welkin blush,
How many fond fools serve mad jealousy!
His name unparallel'd, haply amplified;
HECATE retires
'Tis done.
A most manly wit, Margaret; it will not hurt a
Use them after your own honour and dignity: the less
Mars his true moving, even as in the heavens
What party I do follow.
thee straight,
Where be your powers? show now your mended faiths,
Withdrew me from the odds of multitude:
How now, Signior Launce! what news with your
Thou wilt say anon he is some kin to thee,
Enter a Gentleman, with a bloody knife
Howbeit they would hold up this Salique law
I was born free as Caesar; so were you:
Deserves your hate; and your affections are
Have thus proceeded.
We leave you now with better company.
no bush, 'tis true that a good play needs no
O churl! drunk all, and left no friendly drop
Nay, stay a little:
It seems the marriage with his brother's wife
Here comes lean Jack, here comes bare-bone.
[Singing]
slaughter-house: therefore thus will I reward thee,
Thou never hadst renown, nor canst not lose it.
I am more an antique Roman than a Dane:
And therefore have I little talk'd of love;
I must believe you, sir:
Exeunt
Whose duty is deceiveable and false.
Say, how grows it due?
So will I, Signior Gremio: but a word, I pray.
In spring time,  and c.
I did not see him since.
Sir Thomas Gargrave, hast thou any life?
You and your ways; whose wraths to guard you from--
Here many sink, yet those which see them fall
To steel a strong opinion to themselves?
With purpose to be dress'd in an opinion
They have done my poor house grace; for which I pay 'em
Should so with civil and uncivil arms
Aside
BRAKENBURY reads it
Nay, hear you, Kate: in sooth you scape not so.
would of--I'll beat him, an if I could but meet him again.
These walls of ours
He waged me with his countenance, as if
With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;
desire you that we may be friends; and let us knog
Alone I did it. Boy!
I am glad that my weak words
And greedily devour the treacherous bait:
THE SONG.
To the prince and his bookmates.
Laus Deo, bene intelligo.
Our former hatred, so thrive I and mine!
Being mechanical, you ought not walk
The breath is gone, and the sore eyes see clear:
When workmen strive to do better than well,
Heaven restore thee!
My business is a word or two with Claudio.
Much upon this it is: and might not you
Sirrah, I'll teach thee a speech.
All hell shall stir for this.
Is not so estimable, profitable neither,
But wilt thou hear me how I did proceed?
in one Mistress Page; gives intelligence of Ford's
O sweet Sir John!
Vows are but breath, and breath a vapour is:
That might annoy my finger? 'tis so strange,
Had he been slaughter-man to all my kin,
To see if any mean to shrink from me.
Minion, thou liest. Is't not Hortensio?
As full of sorrows as the sea of sands,
Weapons! arms! What 's the matter here?
Enter ROMEO
Hath nothing been but shapes and forms of slaughter.
I do not bid the thunder-bearer shoot,
That of yourself which you yet know not of.
The argument you held was wrong in you:
What storm is this that blows so contrary?
Do you not come your tardy son to chide,
Your bugle eyeballs, nor your cheek of cream,
And did him service: he touch'd the ports desired,
But, my daughter,
Do 't in your parents' eyes! bankrupts, hold fast;
As are of better person than myself,
Hark, do you hear the sea?
To those that know me. Come, love and health to all;
Well, we may meet again.
thanks: but that I will have a recheat winded in my
For Gratiano never lets me speak.
Thou canst not fear us, Pompey, with thy sails;
charge-house on the top of the mountain?
He needs not our mistrust, since he delivers
beaten way of friendship, what make you at Elsinore?
pregnant and unforced position--who stands so
How shall we do for money for these wars?
Thy thoughts with nobleness; that thou mayst prove
Good mother, be content; it is no more
A villain kills my father; and for that,
That men would tell their children 'This is he;'
Madam my interpreter, what says she?
Exeunt
You wronged yourself to write in such a case.
Haste, signify so much; while we attend,
Well, Syracusian, say in brief the cause
Amongst the fairest breeders of our clime:
And thus I prophesy, that many a thousand,
Help to dress me, good coz, good Meg, good Ursula.
Myself of many I am charged withal:
Will shortly fill the reasonable shore
For what reason?
Her eyes are grey as glass, and so are mine:
Alas, poor fool! why do I pity him
Perhaps they will but please themselves upon her,
Leonato, stand I here?
Or a half-moon made with a pen.
Into a cloven pine; within which rift
Exeunt
Must needs appear offence.
I spake with the old woman about it.
What is your title?
Dost thou not bring me letters from the friar?
The man that once did sell the lion's skin
Plead what I will be, not what I have been;
Why, I pray you, is not pig great? the pig, or the
With bonds of death!
My lord, a prize, a prize! here's the Lord Say,
open. He was torn to pieces with a bear: this
John Duke of Alencon, Anthony Duke of Brabant,
Nym, and Pistol.
Of the poor suppliant, who by this I know
Or gild again the noble troops that waited
Than can my care-tuned tongue deliver him!
The important acting of your dread command? O, say!
Do so, we'll speak to them; and to-night I'll force
Than you can put us to't.
To triumph, like an Amazonian trull,
for he both pleases men and angers them, and then
You are deceived, sir: we kept time, we lost not our time.
To see fair Padua, nursery of arts,
You, Pyramus' father: myself, Thisby's father:
Nor ever had one penny bribe from France.
Was ever father so bemoan'd his son?
For, though I am not splenitive and rash,
My sword i' the life-blood of thee else. My lords,
But neither chain nor goldsmith came to me.
Why, friends, you go to do you know not what:
Fortune forbid my outside have not charm'd her!
turn them together. A man may be too confident: I
Now, Montague, sit fast; I seek for thee,
By heaven, thy love is black as ebony.
I speak too long; but 'tis to peize the time,
Rome shall remedy this.
By throwing it on any other object
And look you get a prayer-book in your hand,
To hell, allegiance! vows, to the blackest devil!
Marry, my uncle Clarence' angry ghost:
Thy overflow of good converts to bad,
unclean fishpond of her displeasure, and, as he
My captain, and my emperor, let me say,
them. I begin to find an idle and fond bondage
The contract you pretend with that base wretch,
ACT III
Upon the life of this thrice-famed duke.
Grow, patience!
Music and a song within: 'Come away, come away,'  and c
Of all the faults beneath the heavens, the gods
I will be satisfied: deny me this,
Let her not say 'tis I that keep you here:
A third is like the former. Filthy hags!
I'll make thee eat iron like an ostrich, and swallow
flow like the sea, being governed, as the sea is,
Mine eyes are cloy'd with view of tyranny:
any in Italy, and as soon moved to be moody, and as
What, are they dead?
If he would spend his power. God save you, sir.
Peace have they made with him indeed, my lord.
More of this matter cannot I report:
Matchless Navarre; the plea of no less weight
call upon you.
'Tis but the pale reflex of Cynthia's brow;
Resolve on this, thou shalt be fortunate,
If thou with Caesar paragon again
Sir, sir,--
Who in contempt shall hiss at thee again:
And then I will her charmed eye release
borrowed a box of the ear of the Englishman and
had four quarrels, and like to have fought one.
And interchangeably set down their hands,
And therefore is wing'd Cupid painted blind:
One word more, one word.
Promise me friendship, but perform none: if thou
As hot as Perseus, spur thy Phrygian steed,
No, my lord.
Unpruned dies; her hedges even-pleach'd,
Till I have caught her once more in mine arms:
This lady makes him to me.
But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my
Exeunt
O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
He durst as well have met the devil alone
A very pleasing night to honest men.
And you the mutinous members; for examine
Whose humble means match not his haughty mind:
And four shall quickly draw out my command,
Your faithful servant: I dare lay mine honour
But He, that hath the steerage of my course,
I am so far already in your gifts,--
To see me thus transformed to a boy.
I am not a day of season,
He is a craven and a villain else, an't please your
But break, my heart; for I must hold my tongue.
Enter Chamberlain and SANDS
For mine own part,--no offence to the general, nor
I will take order for her keeping close.
entrails were hairs; le cheval volant, the Pegasus,
their barks; hangs odes upon hawthorns and elegies
No, Harry, Harry, 'tis no land of thine;
In peace and honour rest you here, my sons!
And keep their teeth clean.
I dare be sworn you were:
Yet, as we may, we'll meet both thee and Warwick.
A precious ring, a ring that I must use
Unlike young men, whom Aristotle thought
soul-curer and body-curer!
draw sword again. Fair lady, do you think you have
To comfort you: I wot well where he is.
Doth rise and help Hyperion to his horse,
Seek you to seize and gripe into your hands
Sometimes to do me service: nine or ten times
Peace, ho! Caesar speaks.
Behold, I pray you!
That thou mightst repossess the crown in peace;
rejoice in yours.
blank verse, why, they were never so truly turned
Impossible.
Do, good William.
Brought near to beast: my face I'll grime with filth;
There's nothing ill can dwell in such a temple:
O, a cherubim
My lord, fair Helen told me of their stealth,
Pray you, take note of it: and when you have
My gay apparel for an almsman's gown,
Did glad my heart with hope of this young Richmond,
Rescued the Black Prince, that young Mars of men,
Dull thing, I say so; he, that Caliban
has a familiar under his tongue; he speaks not o'
thought my spleen; the heaving of my lungs provokes
I will report, so please you: these her women
I would not spend another such a night,
Lends mettle to us all!
Right in thine eye. Away, my friends! New flight;
Why ask I that? my mangled body shows,
SCENE II. LEONATO'S garden.
What present hast thou there?
Two Sentinels on guard.
Dream on, dream on, of bloody deeds and death:
Or I will throw thee from my care for ever
that cry out on the top of question, and are most
What mercy can you render him, Antonio?
That unassailable holds on his rank,
O, my lord, wisdom and blood combating in so tender
Which, from the tongue of roaring Typhon dropp'd
Forestall our sport, to make us thus untrue?
Did York's dread curse prevail so much with heaven?
De nick. Et le menton?
He's safe for these three hours.
If he were dead, what would betide of me?
Or tie my treasure up in silken bags,
And sat with me on Neptune's yellow sands,
I went to her in white, and cried 'mum,' and she
Dispose of them as thou know'st their deserts.
More can I bear than you dare execute.
And not all love to see you, though so much
And fix'd on spiritual object, he should still
my wife is my friend. If men could be contented to
And quickly will return an injury:
Ay, my good lord; 'twas he inform'd against him;
Have we not had a taste of his obedience?
Hippolyta, I woo'd thee with my sword,
them: for they wear themselves in the cap of the
And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch
safe: and you must suffer him to take no delight
As is the sucking lamb or harmless dove:
I will not trust you, I,
Round even to faultiness.
That moved pale Cassius to conspire; and what
I know you well enough; you are Signior Antonio.
Not doing 't and being done: he, most humane
The army of the queen mean to besiege us.
With such a careless force and forceless care
Bench by his side:
Use all the observance of civility,
The way twice o'er.
are scarce cater-cousins--
Who knew of Your intent and coming hither?
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH, SIR ANDREW, and FABIAN
Was ever book containing such vile matter
Than thou and John in manners; being as like
Say to the king, I would attend his leisure
By heavenly synod was devised,
The Duke of Alencon flieth to his side.
Entirely honour: I would not be delay'd.
God bless my ladies! are they all in love,
My lord, the first time that I ever saw him
Exeunt
If I would broach the vessels of my love,
Heaven, be thou gracious to none alive,
Than one of these same metre ballad-mongers;
I am not of your wrong. Therefore in him
To trade and traffic with Macbeth
Anjou and Maine! myself did win them both;
He lives that loves thee better than he could.
He is but outside: these pencill'd figures are
Brentford: but that my admirable dexterity of wit,
And there I'll rest, as after much turmoil
Truly, I would not hang a dog by my will, much more
The action of my life is like it, which
And hire those horses; I'll be with thee straight.
Hath wash'd thy sallow cheeks for Rosaline!
And, for more slander to thy dismal seat,
My cake is dough; but I'll in among the rest,
There comes with them a forerunner, my lord, which
man, I am most dreadfully attended. But, in the
Like Perseus' horse: where's then the saucy boat
To give him hearing: is it four o'clock?
Some six months since, my lord.
She's an adulteress.
And scarce can spare them.
Which all the while ran blood, great Caesar fell.
He faints
Our holy lives must win a new world's crown,
My mildness hath allay'd their swelling griefs,
O, this is hire and salary, not revenge.
Let us kill him, and we'll have corn at our own price.
A pretty period! Well, I guess the sequel;
A velvet dish: fie, fie! 'tis lewd and filthy:
are some brown, some black, some auburn, some bald,
Quickly, to him, and excuse his throwing into the
So old and white as this. O! O! 'tis foul!
He was convey'd by Richard Duke of Gloucester
And not dismember Caesar! But, alas,
To his confine: and of the truth herein
Even to the hall, to hear what shall become
Becomes your enemy, for mocking him
I must obey.
[Reads]
Therefore, my lords, omit no happy hour
Sing no more ditties, sing no moe,
When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
When the devout religion of mine eye
Is that you reconcile them: while the Volsces
Have I not made you,
This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
For I am stifled with this smell of sin.
Suppose him now at anchor. The city strived
deserving: you have lost no reputation at all,
That thou couldst say 'This hand is Grecian all,
He makes me angry with him; for he seems
Titus, I am come to talk with thee.
Why, there it goes: God give his lordship joy!
Which harm within itself so heinous is
ACT III
And for the sake of them thou sorrowest for,
you be so pashful? your shoes is not so good: 'tis
Causeless, perhaps. But pardon me, sweet aunt:
I'll set a bank of rue, sour herb of grace:
won me: 'tis but one cast away, and so, come,
fair Hero is won: I have broke with her father,
I'll hear him his confessions justify;
Thus stands my state, 'twixt Cade and York distress'd.
required conveniences, her delicate tenderness will
Since things in motion sooner catch the eye
If he were proud,--
I will be brief: your noble son is mad:
Murder in heaven?--How!--'Tis gone. Pisanio,
Yes, being kept together and put to use.
To God of heaven, King Richard and to me;
Time-pleasers, flatterers, foes to nobleness.
Who thunders to his captives blood and death,
To-morrow in the battle think on me,
Is it his use?
One, gentlewoman, that God hath made for himself to
That dims the honour of this warlike isle!
Exit
Steering with due course towards the isle of Rhodes,
Of thy intents desires instruction,
Her suit is granted for her husband's lands.
Tunis was never graced before with such a paragon to
Thy element's below! Where is this daughter?
SCENE I. Rochester. An inn yard.
And bring you from a wild Kate to a Kate
Hast thou, according to thy oath and band,
a tooth in her head, though she have as many diseases
Thy shape invisible retain thou still:
If we be English deer, be then in blood;
The bargain of your faith, I do beseech you,
I am full sorry
SCENE IV. London. The Temple-garden.
Were you in doubt, sir, that you asked her?
You have an excellent armour; but let my horse have his due.
Here comes my son Aumerle.
And that which would appear offence in us,
But, like a shrew, you first begin to brawl.
The game was ne'er so fair, and I am done.
Here comes Ancient Pistol and his wife: good
Lay forth the gown.
Yes, so please your majesty. I did go between them,
By that which has undone thee: hinge thy knee,
Be thou ashamed that I have took upon me
Most gentle and most valiant Hector, welcome:
Because it is a customary cross,
Which 'tis not fit you know, I not acquaint
Was I a child to fear I know not what.
He's in his fit now and does not talk after the
SCENE IX. Another part of the plain.
And why not as the lion?
To hurt by being just: it is as lawful,
The king to attach Lord Montacute; and the bodies
Exit
It is a chance which does redeem all sorrows
The doors are open; and the surfeited grooms
There is not yet so ugly a fiend of hell
What, art thou drawn among these heartless hinds?
The mariners all under hatches stow'd;
He hath hereto prized them at.
Does an irresolute purpose.
he keeps me rustically at home, or, to speak more
Where's the thane of Cawdor?
That your best friends shall wish I had been further.
When you then were here,
My lord, what is your will?
Wafting his eyes to the contrary and falling
To put him quite beside his patience.
Come, you transgressing slave; away!
Which done, God take King Edward to his mercy,
But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee!
'D sol re,' one clef, two notes have I:
wakened thy dog that hath lain asleep in the sun:
Come, lady, die to live: this wedding-day
dost thou converse with that trunk of humours, that
Let it fall rather, though the fork invade
The issue is embracement: Ajax, farewell.
A banish'd woman from my Harry's bed?
And train our intellects to vain delight.
Love's feeling is more soft and sensible
Lucilius and Titinius, bid the commanders
When that a ring of Greeks have hemm'd thee in,
Rouse him and give him note of our approach.
Lolling the tongue with slaughtering, having work
My women may be with me; for you see
Bestow your love and your affections
The ratifiers and props of every word,
But honours you; and every one doth wish
You must hang it first, and draw it afterwards.
I find it still, when I have list to sleep:
Like trees bedash'd with rain: in that sad time
And we are govern'd with our mothers' spirits;
Rome could afford no tribune like to these.
And something from the palace; always thought
Doth rise and fall between thy rosed lips,
Song and dance
And now prepare your throats. Lavinia, come,
for my duty cannot be silent when I think your
Engaged my friend to his mere enemy,
[Within]  Give us a light there, ho!
Why, hers, in part or all; but rather, all;
And make us wade even in our kindred's blood,
That's worthily
What, are we cuckolds ere we have deserved it?
Why, how now! what does Master Fenton here?
Most thankfully, my lord.
some that take upon them to know, or do take upon
Mangle the work of nature and deface
Re-enter GLENDOWER with the ladies
Being prepared for land.
And shall my youth be guilty of such blame?
A solemn air and the best comforter
Where is he?
This is, sir, a doubt
I'll slash; I'll do it by the sword. I bepray you,
Uncle Marcus, since it is my father's mind
Did hate thee or thy father!
dwell? Am I a married man or a bachelor? Then, to
Three or four thousand chequins were as pretty a
Do come to Dunsinane:'  and now a wood
No servant of thy master's. Against self-slaughter
Which accidentally are met together.
You are Grand-jurors, are ye? we'll jure ye, 'faith.
Enter CORDELIA, KENT, and Doctor
Oh, Oh, Oh!
Run, boy, run, run, and seek him out.
And from your love I have a warranty
I shall see thee, ere I die, look pale with love.
Must I receive, whose every word deserves
Though he be painted one way like a Gorgon,
Master of this design, did give us, with
Only my wars with him: he is a lion
As strange unto your town as to your talk;
I lay unto the grievous charge of others.
My youth can better spare my blood than you;
Fold down the leaf where I have left: to bed:
A stranger and distressed gentleman,
I am perfect what: cut off one Cloten's head,
I will have more, or else unsay't; and now,
She shall be buried by her Antony:
And true she is, as she hath proved herself,
How now, Sir Hugh! no school to-day?
Nay! prithee, woman,--
Let him thank me, that holp to send him thither;
They'll be in fresher robes, or they will pluck
What are you made of? you'll nor fight nor fly:
When they shall hear how we have play'd the men.
I marvel what kin thou and thy daughters are:
Apt to be render'd, for some one to say
Sad, high, and working, full of state and woe,
Think but this, and all is mended,
Faith, so they say; but I think it rather consists
question, thou hadst well deserved it.
She desires to speak with you in her closet, ere you
to undertake this business, which he knows is not to
are gone: crows and daws, crows and daws! I had
displeasure of the people is as bad as that which he
In borrow'd robes?
Dead.
She was the daughter of a king:
Nay, my lords,
Can pierce a complete bosom. Why I desire thee
Lend me a fool's heart and a woman's eyes,
Hang her! I do but say what she is: so delicate
The bravest questant shrinks, find what you seek,
To draw conditions of a friendly peace;
Beguiles him as the mournful crocodile
No, sir, I do not bite my thumb at you, sir, but I
Enter CAPULET, LADY CAPULET, and PARIS
Disdain and scorn ride sparkling in her eyes,
For after the stout Earl Northumberland
Trumpets sound within
I bring a trumpet to awake his ear,
Lords, knights, and gentlemen, what I should say
The sun doth gild our armour; up, my lords!
A sure and safe one, though thy master miss'd it.
For that which, if myself might be his judge,
And make them blind with tributary tears:
Achilles bids me say, he is much sorry,
Yes, in truth it is, sir.
mouths in a glass.
Met us again and madly bent on us,
Here is a letter; read it at your leisure;
This is the day of doom for Bassianus:
Thou dost affect my manners, and dost use them.
To set a gloss upon his bold intent,
Dry up in her the organs of increase;
I could not personally deliver to her
The thickest and the tallest! it is so; truth is truth.
this: I'll none of him.
mocks; I have forgot his name.
Good fool, help me to some light and some paper: I
Traitor, thou liest.
And moe corrivals and dear men
Well, give me the moiety. Are you a party in this business?
capon and eat it? wherein cunning, but in craft?
For many men that stumble at the threshold
Of heavenly oaths, vow'd with integrity.
I scorn you not: it seems that you scorn me.
Be packing, therefore, thou that wast a knight:
buried in thy eyes; and moreover I will go with
Is that a wonder?
For Valentine, I need not cite him to it:
That he should weep for her? What would he do,
Let me give humble thanks for all at once.
And choice, being mutual act of all our souls,
Looking on his hands
Sir, the event
There wanteth now our brother Gloucester here,
And blind oblivion swallow'd cities up,
Slave, thou hast slain me: villain, take my purse:
And God, not we, hath plagued thy bloody deed.
It will be for his gentle daughter's sake:
Now be you blest for it!
The lives of those which we have lost in fight
King John, your king and England's doth approach,
Shall make me live. Who knows himself a braggart,
To be more prince, as may be. You are sad.
Hunting thee hence with hunt's-up to the day,
Who's there?
Out of our virtues; who miscarrying,
Thou wast never with me for any thing when thou wast
Give up your body to such sweet uncleanness
Here is Sir William Lucy, who with me
Will shake this island.
Mark it: the eldest of them at three years old,
Didst thou but know the inly touch of love,
But he, his own affections' counsellor,
conscience says 'No; take heed,' honest Launcelot;
thee for't.
My leg is cut in two.
I know't; I thank you. You do love my lord:
towards him? I will make your peace with him if I
You see how all conditions, how all minds,
So may he with more facile question bear it,
both, master parson?
semblance of a maid,--that you have discovered
Have steep'd their galls in honey and do serve you
Than wanton dalliance with a paramour.
And Benedick is not the unhopefullest husband that
Re-enter FALSTAFF
But dust was thrown upon his sacred head:
I look'd toward Birnam, and anon, methought,
O, good sir, I do.
And I.
In my most ill-composed affection such
could say she were worse: think you of a worse
When men were fond, I smiled and wonder'd how.
The archbishopric of Toledo, this is purposed.
Thou'lt be afraid to hear it.
If it be ne'er so false, a true gentleman may swear
Appear unkinglike.
Why so earnestly seek you to put up that letter?
I will, when you are humble; nay, before,
Thou'rt tired, then, in a word, I also am
Enter PARIS and HELEN, attended
He that parts us shall bring a brand from heaven,
His wonted sleep under a fresh tree's shade,
True honest men being heard, like false Aeneas,
Why, lords, and think you not how dangerous
Murder most foul, as in the best it is;
How! of me?
Excellent.
Has spoken like a traitor, and shall answer
Some book there is that she desires to see.
You, like a lecher, out of whorish loins
proclamation, and he rails upon me.
higher, or return again into France?
Suspend thy purpose, if thou didst intend
Let me end the story:
Could put into them; my breeding was, sir, as
Nay, but he prated,
Give me those flowers there, Dorcas. Reverend sirs,
As stuff for these two to make paradoxes.
Enter FRIAR LAURENCE and PARIS
is writ. Look, the unfolding star calls up the
I'll never see 't; for, I am sure, my nails
's are sophisticated! Thou art the thing itself:
Must stead us all and me amongst the rest,
When thou canst get the ring upon my finger which
Suppose that I am now my father's mouth;
'Coram.'
He bade me store up, as a triple eye,
Be assured you may.
'This we received;' and each in either side
Which wrought to his desire.
Arm, wenches, arm! encounters mounted are
Proceed, proceed: we will begin these rites,
Either a coward or a flatterer.
Sister, where thou?
'Item: She hath more hair than wit, and more faults
Is't possible?
spectators, the dish pays the shot.
Will she go now to bed?
Combine your hearts in one, your realms in one!
He prays you to save his life: he is a gentleman of
Madam, 'tis now in tune.
To crop at once a too long wither'd flower.
To supper; to our house.
Should see salvation: we do pray for mercy;
Yea even my foes will shed fast-falling tears,
Yes, your renowned name: shall flight abuse it?
Is every flatterer's spirit. Who can call him
Who is that, servant?
What do you esteem it at?
[Sings]
Enter FRIAR LAURENCE and PARIS, with Musicians
Who married Edmund Mortimer, Earl of March:
So ridest thou triumphing in my woe.
Why stay we, then?
A goodly humour, is it not, my lords?
When I shall gust it last. How came't, Camillo,
Taxation!
How like you this wild counsel, mighty states?
And seize upon the fortunes of the Moor,
Than all the island kings,--disarm great Hector.
How! caught of me!
Of any trust, virtue, or worth in thee
I hear a knocking
Prettily, methought, did play the orator.
Receives rebuke from Norway, and in fine
master: Anne is a good girl, and I wish--
unmannerly slave, that will thrust himself into
And leave itself unfurnish'd. Yet look, how far
I told her so, my lord,
A fiend, a fury, pitiless and rough;
Sir,
To welcome him! much more, and much more cause,
yet; that you answer to Pyramus: you speak all your
Between our kingdoms and our royal selves,
The image of his Maker, hope to win by it?
Sing willow, willow, willow:
I thought all for the best.
I mean, to man, he had not apprehension
Opposed against the act, bending his sword
Nay, let them go, a couple of quiet ones.
To KENT and EDGAR
Ha, ha!
Put forth toward Phrygia; and their vow is made
Thy husband he is dead: and for his death
To call hers exquisite, in question more:
The word, 'Quod me alit, me extinguit.'
Makes way, and run like swallows o'er the plain.
And thou wilt show more bright and seem more virtuous
Bear with her weakness, which, I think proceeds
When I arrived and heard thee, that made gape
I tell thee,
Lady, I will commend you to mine own heart.
For the in which doth control't.
Cutting a smaller hair than may be seen,
Enter BIRON, with a paper
What dost thou think?
Lord Say, the traitors hate thee;
The unseen good old man.
I thought had been my lord.
face again: but those that understood him smiled at
One word, good friend. Lucio, a word with you.
That is some satire, keen and critical,
That ever blotted paper! Gentle lady,
This day, in argument upon a case,
SCENE I. London. The palace.
Which he did wave against my throat, I have ta'en
'Tis as easy as lying: govern these ventages with
And he shall our commission bring to you;
And hast the comfort of thy children left thee:
To sin's rebuke and my Creator's praise.
For every one pursents three.
The lady protests too much, methinks.
That's AEneas: is not that a brave man? he's one of
And sends allegiance and true faith of heart
[Reads]
And say withal I think he held the right.
Why, 'tis a cockle or a walnut-shell,
Then, if he lose, he makes a swan-like end,
Why, true; he means to make a puppet of thee.
Fellows, stand fast; I see a passenger.
If I get down, and do not break my limbs,
Nay, I'll ne'er believe that; I have to show to the contrary.
Thou know'st that we two went to school together:
And makes each petty artery in this body
bountiful to the desirers. Therefore, beseech you,
To come alone, either he so undertaking,
For the crown'd Truth to dwell in: I will
Cold wisdom waiting on superfluous folly.
Why, Clarence, to myself.
Remain, remain thou here
For she is sweeter than perfume itself
From him; and thus he greets your majesty.
The maid is fair, o' the youngest for a bride,
While other sports are tasking of their minds,
And after all this fearful homage done,
Exeunt
and there's the humour of it. Adieu.
Live elves and fairies in a ring,
I humbly do desire your grace of pardon:
And Hastings as he favours Edward's cause!
go to thy fellows; bid them cover the table, serve
Verona, for a while I take my leave,
I shall obey his will.
Farewell Andronicus, my noble father,
As good as promise.
Enter PHILARIO, IACHIMO, a Frenchman, a Dutchman, and a Spaniard
figures in all things. Alexander, God knows, and
Enter KING EDWARD IV, GLOUCESTER, and soldiers
With such deep contempt made I him king for this?
Now the gods keep you old enough; that you may live
ANTIPHOLUS
ANTIPHOLUS
And so the prince obscured his contemplation
May I be bold to ask at what that contains,
and father. This villain of mine comes under the
got! thou hast got more hair on thy chin than
But I shall laugh at this a twelve-month hence,
That made me happy at one stroke has taken
That when they hear the Roman horses neigh,
When great things labouring perish in their birth.
Here come more.
But is your grace dead, my Lord of Somerset?
Ay, madam;
You, you, ay, you!
pageant there is presented no monster.
Might happily have proved far worse than his.
Good my lord, hear me.
Our mistress' sorrows we were pitying.
Thou art, as you are all, a sorceress:
O monstrous traitor! I arrest thee, York,
horse a drench,' says he; and answers 'Some
Sound trumpets! let our bloody colours wave!
All souls that will be safe fly from my side,
The lining of his coffers shall make coats
And you are darken'd in this action, sir,
In cypress chests my arras counterpoints,
To give them seals never, my soul, consent!
every mother's son, and rehearse your parts.
That the sense aches at thee, would thou hadst
Knock,
indeed she is given too much to allicholy and
And yet I wish but for the thing I have:
Our shows are more than will; for still we prove
Let some o' the guard be ready there.
Presents that I intend to send them both:
Flourish. Enter POMPEY and MENAS at one door,  with drum and trumpet: at another, OCTAVIUS CAESAR,  MARK ANTONY, LEPIDUS, DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS, MECAENAS, with Soldiers marching
That we have made so much on. I had rather
knave; that's, before me thou'rt a knave: this had
No malice, sir; no more than well becomes
Employ thee then, sweet virgin, for our good.
Exit
My reverence, calling, nor divinity,
Not possible; for who shall bear your part,
All unavoided is the doom of destiny.
makes her story true, even to the point of her
And 'tis well seen he found an enemy.
If he will take it, so; if not, adieu;
York cannot speak, unless he wear a crown.
Of my endurance, thou art a man, and I
questions.
No, wench; it eats and sleeps and hath such senses
Piteous predicament! Even so lies she,
Which cannot hear a lady's feeble voice,
'Tis bitter.
Takes on the point of honour to support
Pretty, i' faith.
Thus far,
Of one sore I an hundred make by adding but one more L.
Under the lordly monarch of the north,
And could command no more content than I?
How have we spent this morning!
And make high majesty look like itself,
If I last in this service, you must case me in leather.
What ugly sights of death within mine eyes!
You said the enemy would not come down,
To pay this debt of love but to a brother,
My gracious uncle--
this box; and must the inheritor himself have no more, ha?
Say, you ne'er had done't--
The poor deer's blood, that my heart means no ill.
Goes slow and stately by them: thrice he walk'd
To see the battle. Hector, whose patience
The proud control of fierce and bloody war,
For yonder walls, that pertly front your town,
So think of your estate.
Of Hamlet's transformation; so call it,
Enter IDEN, with CADE'S head
But by your voices, will not so permit me;
Here is the regent, sir, of Mytilene
I mean, an we be in choler, we'll draw.
From Cupid's shoulder pluck his painted wings
Saddle my horse.
Not body's death, but body's banishment.
Wall, that vile Wall which did these lovers sunder;
coroners of that age found it was 'Hero of Sestos.'
Edward, my lord, your son, our king, is dead.
Who? thy lord? that is my lord, Leonatus!
Hard fate! he might have died in war.
But yet they could have wish'd--they know not--
By my sword, Beatrice, thou lovest me.
By heaven, all dry-beaten with pure scoff!
Approach, rich Ceres, her to entertain.
Cannot contain their urine: for affection,
Soldiers, I thank you all; disperse yourselves;
And, madam, there is order ta'en for you;
Like the old tale, my lord: 'it is not so, nor
Tell me some reason why the Lady Grey
you be ready for that, you are well cooked.
And, throwing but shows of service on their lords,
Thou art the first knave that e'er madest a duke.
How much the quantity, the weight as much,
Here they stand martyrs, slain in Cupid's wars;
Thy father bears the type of King of Naples,
thee, my dearest partner of greatness, that thou
Exeunt
have a cake out of the wheat must needs tarry the grinding.
I'll not be there.
And, gladly quaked, hear more; where the
Belike his wife, acquainted with his fits,
Hew them to pieces, hack their bones asunder
My lord, prepare; the king comes on apace.
There is a purse of ducats; let her send it:
I cannot tell. Those that do teach young babes
Our frustrate search on land. Well, let him go.
You know he does.
DON
Agamemnon, how if he had boils? full, all over,
That's monstrous: O, that that were out!
Then, O you blessed ministers above,
If that it be the work of any hand!
Beat thou the drum, that it speak mournfully:
By my troth, Nerissa, my little body is aweary of
Nay, we will slink away in supper-time,
valour is discretion; in the which better part I
A poor unminded outlaw sneaking home,
Soldiers, this day have you redeemed your lives,
Not step o'er the bounds of modesty.
Shall Kate be my wife?
Such as will enter at a lady's ear
Hates any man the thing he would not kill?
Princes,
By the law of arms thou wast not bound to answer
I have one thing more to ask him yet, good Charmian:
I warrant thee, nobody hears; mine own people, mine
By flattery hath he won the commons' hearts,
Be thereat glean'd, for all the sun sees or
baseness, it is as much as I can do to keep the
By Sinel's death I know I am thane of Glamis;
Safe at the Centaur; and the heedful slave
Which we have goaded onward.
Roderigo!
Whose violent property fordoes itself
Self against self: O, preposterous
Some sudden mischief may arise of it;
O me! this sight of death is as a bell,
Whereof we have ta'en good and good store, of all
So that we fled; the king unto the queen;
Uncomfortable time, why camest thou now
in paying it, it is impossible I should live, all
Her dowery wealthy, and of worthy birth;
Faith, I know not what to say.
They prosper best of all when I am thence.
If silent, why, a block moved with none.
sir, a father: he that so generally is at all times
His means of death, his obscure funeral--
Rapine and Murder, you are welcome too.
politic? am I subtle? am I a Machiavel? Shall I
Marry, is't.
That angels love good men with; even of her
requests to thy friend.
The king is a good king: but it must be as it may;
The appetites they feed: but she makes hungry
great eater of beef and I believe that does harm to my wit.
you two would marry.
Death and damnation! O!
Aside
I will marry her, sir, at your request: but if there
Sweet masters, be patient: for your father's
The queen your mother rounds apace: we shall
And this same progeny of evils comes
Exeunt OTHELLO, DESDEMONA, and Attendants
I thought you would not back again.
Thunder and lightning. Enter from opposite sides, CASCA, with his sword drawn, and CICERO
We have jaded out o' the field.
them not handsomely.
The voice of dead Thaisa!
I am not bid to wait upon this bride.
You, my good friends,'--this says the belly, mark me,--
SCENE I. The king of Navarre's park.
Against the laws and statutes of this town,
Whether our daughter were legitimate,
struck him first, yet it's no matter for that.
From a full-flowing stomach. General,
Well, this is the forest of Arden.
From our brother England?
Who says it was, he lies; I say 'twas not.
there a wise woman with thee?
Did seem to say 'Seek not a scorpion's nest,
To yield me often tidings: neither know I
Now, how dost thou look now? O ill-starr'd wench!
These cates resist me, she but thought upon.
You drew your sword upon me without cause;
The night is long that never finds the day.
And the conjunction of our inward souls
My reason all the same; and they are ready
I must believe my master; else, I promise you,
When my good falcon made her flight across
Exeunt
[Aside]  And so says York, for he hath greatest cause.
Without a tongue, using conceit alone,
sit like a jack-an-apes, never off. But, before God,
I came to serve a king and not a duke.
Which came from one that's of a neutral heart,
the Worthy, but I am to stand for him.
Lord, for thy justice!
A woman, that is like a German clock,
He did inform the truth: but for our gentlemen,
While I myself will lead a private life
Trumpets sound. Enter REIGNIER, below
again, and flourish with the highest. Therefore
To Germany, there with the emperor
A shout and flourish
The wolves have prey'd; and look, the gentle day,
Willing to overlook this pedigree:
Re-enter Servants with supper
Why then my taxing like a wild-goose flies,
Now, sir, her father counts it dangerous
And here the maiden, sleeping sound,
Deliver'd letters, spite of intermission,
A huge translation of hypocrisy,
[Reads]  'Wonder not, nor admire not in thy mind,
But, sirs, be sudden in the execution,
My troublous dream this night doth make me sad.
She hath good leave.
Let me redeem my brothers both from death.
Beats BIONDELLO
That had a heart to love, and in that heart
Cannot do more in England than the Nevils:
Where you may see the inmost part of you.
Yet have I heard,--O, could I find it now!--
And leave her on such slight conditions.
That e'er invention play'd on? tell me why.
By my life, I do; which I tender dearly, though I
The good patricians must be visited;
No marvel, you have so bestirred your valour. You
Why, what care I? If thou canst nod, speak too.
Good morrow to the sun. Hail, thou fair heaven!
To say to me that thou art out of breath?
Being entertained for a perfumer, as I was smoking a
Why is Time such a niggard of hair, being, as it is,
Alack, alack, that heaven should practise stratagems
And straight they shall be here: sit, and attend.
Heigh-ho! an it be not four by the day, I'll be
Whoever got thee, there thy mother stands;
Come, come,
Your maidenheads growing: O Proserpina,
Exeunt
Taught thee to make vast Neptune weep for aye
Alarum afar off, as at a sea-fight
Enter Prince, attended; MONTAGUE, CAPULET, their Wives, and others
Was my beloved in Rome: yet thou behold'st!
Then Troilus should have too much: if she praised
The same upon your finger.
Never; he will not:
I'll ever serve his mind with my best will;
Accept this scroll, most gracious sovereign,
And when the doctor spies his vantage ripe,
silver and lead, whereof who chooses his meaning
Please you repeat their names, I'll show my mind
Farewell.
Signior Antipholus, I wonder much
The sun of heaven methought was loath to set,
These eyes, like lamps whose wasting oil is spent,
O cunning, how I got it!--nay, some marks
And this for me, struck home to show my strength.
A noble temper dost thou show in this;
Making the hard way sweet and delectable.
them than mortal knowledge. When I burned in desire
Against a sworder! I see men's judgments are
Look ye yonder, niece; is't not a gallant man too,
And lack of temper'd judgment afterward.
you, as you shall desire in a summer's day. Here is
simple syllogism will serve, so; if it will not,
despise one that is false, or as I despise one that
Show minutes, times, and hours: but my time
the prince thou art a tall fellow of thy hands and
I cannot stay to hear these articles.
Intend here to besiege you in your castle:
midway between him and Benedick: the one is too
Were we before our armies, and to fight.
Go, tell the Count Rousillon, and my brother,
Madding my eagerness with her restraint,
his wife; 'tis none of his own getting. Horns?
Where is our daughter? She hath not appear'd
and of very liberal conceit.
Who would be thence that has the benefit of access?
All disconsolate,
His excellence did earn it, ere he had it.
A villain to attempt it, who having drawn to do't,
How sometimes nature will betray its folly,
Great Birnam wood to high Dunsinane hill
woolward for penance.
Never afflict yourself to know the cause;
Not well.
To royalize his blood I spilt mine own.
yet I determine to fight lustily for him.
Nor curstness grow to the matter.
you pick a quarrel to beguile me of it: I bought
loves Troilus,--
in faith, honest as the skin between his brows.
By his great authority;
No, madam; we will bring you on your way.
Or thou or I, Somerset, will be protector,
God help the wicked! if to be old and merry be a
Come, hang them on this line.
A thousand thanks, Signior Gremio.
Nor look upon the iron angerly:
Worthy sir, thou bleed'st;
Disdain to root the summer-swelling flower
Is thine, if thou wilt ha't.
Keep leets and law-days and in session sit
Exeunt
The imminent decay of wrested pomp.
To be full quit of those my banishers,
For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
Where's Antony?
I remember
And she is mine, and all my right of her
Marry, whip thee, gosling: I think I shall have
Come, my dear love,
Himself to Rome; his spirit is come in,
No, nor mine now.
Amazed, my lord? why looks your highness sad?
my husband? 'The forked one,' quoth he, 'pluck't
Thus much the business is: we have here writ
or no, the velvet knows; but 'tis a goodly patch of
Well, madam, we must take a short farewell,
Was not our recompense, resting well assured
majesty bade me signify to you that he has laid a
Hath this brave manage, this career, been run.
Exeunt
And so we'll leave you to your meditations
And lack of other means, in desperate manner
When you and those poor number saved with you
The fractions of her faith, orts of her love,
You came, I think, from France?
SCENE II. A public place.
What instance of the contrary?
Which thou esteem'st the ornament of life,
The heaviness and guilt within my bosom
machinations, hollowness, treachery, and all
To overbear it, and we are all well pleased,
I will perform it to enfranchise you.
And hardly keeps his men from mutiny,
As doth the lion in the Capitol,
And yet it cannot overtake your slow purse.
We have made to endure friends, that you directly
As black and white, my eye will scarcely see it.
An excellent colour: your chestnut was ever the only colour.
Yes, the fashion is the fashion.
I'll go out then.
How much, methinks, I could despise this man,
I'll lay fourteen of my teeth,--
Thou shalt have none, Rousillon, none in France;
Soft and fair, friar. Which is Beatrice?
so. Now come I to my father; Father, your blessing:
I'll tell you what; I think it is our way,
Into a rapture lets her baby cry
neighbour Verges: well, God's a good man; an two men
house; next, this is a respected fellow; and his
Enter GREMIO, LUCENTIO in the habit of a mean man;  PETRUCHIO, with HORTENSIO as a musician; and TRANIO, with BIONDELLO bearing a lute and books
I'll see it truly done, my Lord of York.
In a disguise of love:
A book of prayers on their pillow lay;
Put on a most importunate aspect,
The effects of sorrow for his valiant sons,
To Pericles thy father.
Unapt to toil and trouble in the world,
Some one with child by him? My cousin Juliet?
The poorest service is repaid with thanks;
Re-enter BENVOLIO
At Crosby Place, there shall you find us both.
Shall I seem crest-fall'n in my father's sight?
Deservedly confined into this rock,
Come, come you talk.
court, the women so besiege us? Bless me, what a
Wound it with sighing, girl, kill it with groans;
Ride, ride, Messala: let them all come down.
As therein are set down.
Your servant and your friend;
And yet we strike not, but securely perish.
That had not half a week to go, like rams
When she will take the rein I let her run;
O, 'tis a tender place; and I must leave her.
No news so bad abroad as this at home;
one that can steal well? O for a fine thief, of the
Hark, hark!
Exit
Enter a Lady
Did ever so long live; no sorrow
our supplications in the quill.
You, Nick Bottom, are set down for Pyramus.
consider your music the better: if it do not, it is
The gods preserve you both!
I'll bring her to the Grecian presently:
[Striking her]  Devil!
Far be it from my heart, the thought of it!
Than may be given you: in few, Ophelia,
No man so potent breathes upon the ground
What's his name?
Who laid him down and bask'd him in the sun,
Who bare my letter, then, to Romeo?
Full soon the canker death eats up that plant.
Stands on the hourly thought.
Exeunt POSTHUMUS LEONATUS and IACHIMO
whole, and let burnt sack be the issue. Come, lay
you not. I'll not be far from you: do you find
The tedious day with sleep.
These were his very words.
Lay out, lay out.
Pray now, buy some: I love a ballad in print o'
Madam, an if my brother had my shape,
I haste now to my setting: I shall fall
Beyond the mark of others: our then dictator,
And blazoning our injustice every where?
the even of it.
reason with them.
Enter two Murderers
I do not know,
more natural.
Filth as thou art, with human care, and lodged thee
Whose bloody deeds shall make all Europe quake.
The Duke of Suffolk muffled up in rags!
There is a prone and speechless dialect,
They that add, moreover, he's drunk nightly in your company.
And he did render him the most unnatural
That cannot say as much. This is a subtle whore,
He knows me as the blind man knows the cuckoo,
To her, whose state is such that cannot choose
My worthy lord, if ever Tamora
A napkin steeped in the harmless blood
I know her father, though I know not her;
The heavens themselves, the planets and this centre
'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet,
York, if thou meanest well, I greet thee well.
doe?
O my Antonio, I do know of these
O calm, dishonourable, vile submission!
Melodious birds sings madrigals;
What stuff is this! how say you?
He'll strike, and quickly too: he's dead and rotten.
Give me a gash, put me to present pain;
With shunless destiny; aidless came off,
In man as well as herbs, grace and rude will;
Offering to kiss her
Upon thy stars, thy fortune and thy strength,
that without any further delay than this very evening.
A dog of the house of Montague moves me.
Thunder. Third Apparition: a Child crowned, with a tree in his hand
Which I will over-pay and pay again
Come not between the dragon and his wrath.
addition in French, Notre trescher fils Henri, Roi
Shall this our lofty scene be acted over
an ape, in the corner of his jaw; first mouthed, to
Let's see these pockets: the letters that he speaks of
not a soldier-like phrase: but I say, love me. By me,
Shot from the deadly level of a gun,
I love this youth; and I have heard you say,
What?
As watchman to my heart. But, good my brother,
I shall yield up my crown, let him be hang'd.
Which action's self was tongue to. All was royal;
Upon remainder of a dear account,
that damned brawn shall play Dame Mortimer his
Is Banquo gone from court?
observation we have made of it hath not been
They would not have you to stir forth to-day.
He's poor in no one fault, but stored with all.
I pardon that man's life. What was thy cause? Adultery?
that we know one another.
Re-enter OTHELLO and Attendants
Some that will evermore peep through their eyes
How fain, like Pilate, would I wash my hands
Without the which a soldier, and his sword,
Yet you, the murderer, look as bright, as clear,
Hath my poor boy done aught but well,
What though I be enthrall'd? he seems a knight,
You shall not find,
For making up this peace!' Thou know'st, great son,
This quarrel will drink blood another day.
With untired spirits and formal constancy:
wherefore I know not--lost all my mirth, forgone all
The white cold virgin snow upon my heart
My last good deed was to entreat his stay:
To me she speaks; she moves me for her theme:
He cannot but with measure fit the honours
It cannot be that she hath done thee wrong.
A special party, have, by common voice,
Faith, I saw it not; but I felt it hot in her breath.
O, I am yours, and all that I possess!
I fear me both are false.
Come, come, Thersites, help to trim my tent:
With her whom here I cannot hold on shore;
O, is't come to this?
Debosh'd on every tomb, on every grave
Or Somerset or York, all's one to me.
Much about cock-shut time, from troop to troop
Thou art proclaimed a fool, I think.
The reason is, your spirits are attentive:
Make war upon themselves; blood against blood,
Tincture or lustre in her lip, her eye,
And the new deputy now for the duke--
Enter two Gentlemen, meeting one another
Of whom he's chief, with all the size that verity
use fifty talents, hath sent to your lordship to
To suffer lawful censure for such faults
monster, but an infinite loss.
Many times, madam.
the most sufficient of your parish.
With his most noble blood.
Enter Mariners
But life, being weary of these worldly bars,
First, know, my horse is tired; my master and
For the sound man. Death on my state! wherefore
Like friends long lost. Triple-turn'd whore!
That his chief followers lodge in towns about him,
Said I for this, the girl was like to him?
My loving lord, I take my leave of you;
Allowing him a breath, a little scene,
Why, are all your beggars whipped, then?
I have not slept one wink.
and so encounter.
I mean the Earl of Wiltshire, Bushy, Green.
Hath fear'd the valiant: by my love I swear
There's something more would out of thee; what say'st?
Or when you waked, so waked as if you slept.
With willing sport to the wild ocean.
He shall not carry him: I'll be ta'en too,
Even now, even here, not half an hour since.
Did I let pass the abuse done to my niece?
sir?
A wonder, master! here's a costard broken in a shin.
For this poor furniture and mean array.
revels his addiction leads him: for, besides these
Beaufort, it is thy sovereign speaks to thee.
Ha, my brave emperor!
trust my judgment in any thing.
This is the greatest error of all the rest: the man
The handle toward my hand? Come, let me clutch thee.
And this soft courage makes your followers faint.
That quarrels at self-breath: imagined worth
Let me read.
I am call'd Dercetas;
And that would she for twenty thousand more.
Of their afflictions, and shall not myself,
Most friendship is feigning, most loving mere folly:
may run mad; but, if with too much brain and too
Touch their effects in this: thyself art coming
O my dear kinsman! Prince, as thou art true,
Nor no witchcraft charm thee!
She puts her tongue a little in her heart,
And is not like the sire: honours thrive,
Sword, hold thy temper; heart, be wrathful still:
Find out the prettiest daisied plot we can,
Thee thither in a whirlwind. If thou wilt,
Which stretched to their servants, daughters, wives,
And having that, do choke their service up
That profit us. What, ho! slave! Caliban!
say to me now, an I were your very very Rosalind?
The most diminutive of birds, will fight,
Wilt thou be made a man out of my vice?
What shall I say to thee, Lord Scroop? thou cruel,
Will you undo yourselves?
Why, well;
And have their palates both for sweet and sour,
Here in this island we arrived; and here
This shall be done, good father, presently.
conversation, that he dares in this manner assay me?
A mankind witch! Hence with her, out o' door:
And took his voice who should be prick'd to die,
nothing but secrecy. Let my sheep go: come, good
is Anne Page, which is daughter to Master Thomas
Ay, by my faith, for a poor earl to give:
Am better than thy dear self's better part.
His sorrows have so overwhelm'd his wits,
Have uncheque'd theft. Love not yourselves: away,
Upon the enraged soldiers in their spoil
To her, Kate!
yields pound and odd shilling; fifteen hundred
And Shylock, for his own part, knew the bird was
Proceed by swallowing that, for he believes
Be assured, madam,
Relent! 'tis cowardly and womanish.
Caesar, thou art revenged,
Bade him anon return and here speak with me;
But how wilt thou do for a father?
should do for clients her fitment, and do me the
With nothing trembles: at some thing it grieves,
Do as the heavens have done, forget your evil;
heir to the crown.
Why, is it not news, to hear of Petruchio's coming?
better fool.
I am a most poor woman, and a stranger,
To Owen Glendower: and, dear coz, to you
I jest to Oberon and make him smile
That liberal shepherds give a grosser name,
Culling of simples; meagre were his looks,
By this I challenge him to single fight.
And drave great Mars to faction.
Alas! he gets nothing by that. In our last
I prithee, who?
Of its right father. Blossom, speed thee well!
To give my tongue that heat to ask your help;
That is, the madman: the lover, all as frantic,
Good morrow to you. Here the street is narrow:
That bucket down and full of tears am I,
As Dian bade: whereto being bound,
What majesty should be, what duty is,
And in such eyes as ours appear not faults;
Then leave her, sir; for, by the power that made me,
Look, when I vow, I weep; and vows so born,
'Twixt his stretch'd footing and the scaffoldage,--
there's no purchase in money. O, thou art a
Who loved her so, that, speaking of her foulness,
In such a place, such sum or sums as are
As firmly as I hope for fertile England.
Were then but subjects; being now a subject,
well; but civil count, civil as an orange, and
est meilleur que l'Anglois lequel je parle.
To lock it in the wards of covert bosom,
Comes armed through our watch; so like the king
And not a maiden, as thou say'st he is.
When shepherds pipe on oaten straws
flinch, chide me for it.
That such immanity and bloody strife
Sweet king! the bishop hath a kindly gird.
How nice the quarrel was, and urged withal
report fort, but that he pays himself with being proud.
Are such allow'd infirmities that honesty
Or like a cunning instrument cased up,
Till seven at night: to make society
My lord, I have consider'd with myself
Do! why: what else?
Of Naples and of Milan, what strange fish
But that it would be double-dealing, sir, I would
Tell them that God bids us do good for evil:
The creatures that were mine, I say, or changed 'em,
And let thy Suffolk take his heavy leave.
Deserved it too; and then the boy, his clerk,
Not sorting with a nuptial ceremony.
'Twould be my tyranny to strike and gall them
Be comfort to my age! Here is the gold;
How long have you been a sectary astronomical?
Seeing Orlando, it unlink'd itself,
There is a gentleman that serves the count
By Jove, I wonder, that is king of thoughts,
Strikes him
Whom passion could not shake? whose solid virtue
Expect your highness' doom of life or death.
Hear me with patience.
No, indeed, will I not, Pompey; it is not the wear.
And here is my speech. Stand aside, nobility.
Ever in fear to kindle your dislike,
And when a soldier was the theme, my name
our element we know nothing. Come down, you witch,
And when it hath the thing it hunteth most,
I keep a servant fee'd. I will to-morrow,
Good signior, you shall more command with years
And, till thou be restored, thou art a yeoman.
With gobbets of thy mother's bleeding heart.
This true which they so seem to fear. Go home,
Say they know not, they cannot tell; look grimly,
husband, Master Brook, dwelling in a continual
Yet here they shall not lie, for catching cold.
In wrongful quarrel you have slain your son.
I send thee, Warwick, such a messenger
Out of his scattering and unsure observance.
For the four winds blow in from every coast
To hang thee on; or wouldst thou drown thyself,
Hoy-day, what a sweep of vanity comes this way!
She falls upon her bed, within the curtains
You may as well use question with the wolf
Tell him, my mourning weeds are laid aside,
I might in virtue, beauties, livings, friends,
revenue for ever, and live the beloved of your
lord, I will most humbly take my leave of you.
O, that exceeds, they say.
Banish us both and send the king with me.
Not minding whether I dislike or no!
ship-tire, the tire-valiant, or any tire of
SCENE II. France. Before Orleans.
'Tis your noblest course.
Didst note it?
Had you been as wise as bold,
I shall as famous be by this exploit
When by the Archbishop of Canterbury
Go you down that way towards the Capitol;
Why, fare thee well:
ere morning.
Here, Peter Quince.
him: and at my entreaty forbear his presence
they will away presently.
Meantime let wonder seem familiar,
What towns of any moment but we have?
This night he meaneth with a corded ladder
for, by gar, me vill have it.
To any syllable that made love to you.
With their superfluous riots, hear these tears!
Alarum. Enter KING HENRY VI alone
same piece
I have night's cloak to hide me from their sight;
O, let me pray before I take my death!
With twenty mortal murders on their crowns,
That will be given to the loudest noise we make.
Giving him papers
Weigh but the crime with this.
Too flattering-sweet to be substantial.
offence gracious, though few have the grace to do it.
Your resolution cannot hold, when 'tis
Perform'd to point the tempest that I bade thee?
should be thought a coward: but his few bad words
No, my good lord;
When saucy trusting of the cozen'd thoughts
Weigh you the worth and honour of a king
Admired Octavia: great Mark Antony
great, or the mighty, or the huge, or the
Whilst he, from the one side to the other turning,
If fortune brag of two she loved and hated,
The arm of mine own body, and the heart
But, Clifford, tell me, didst thou never hear
Ay, sir; whom, I thank heaven, is an honest woman,--
Have patience, I beseech.
pray heartily, pardon me.
The choice and master spirits of this age.
I thank you for your company; but, good faith, I had
Why then to-night
My Wolsey, see it furnish'd. O, my lord,
But the rarity of it is,--which is indeed almost
To be relinquish'd of the artists,--
The name of honour more than I fear death.
But that he speaks.
substitute, and to save your brother?
upon thee!
Which here we waken to our country's good,
What needs this iteration, woman? I say thy husband.
he hath wronged his honour in marrying the renowned
I pray you, sir, my ring, or else the chain:
There, sir, stop:
Your suffering in this dearth, you may as well
SCENE III. A royal palace.
So pale did shine the moon on Pyramus
Hear me a word;
When he to madding Dido would unfold
The time and my intents are savage-wild,
And have install'd me in the diadem:
You're welcome, gentlemen.
Parted you in good terms? Found you no
You should be lord ambassador from the emperor,
Ay.
And portance in my travels' history:
A dollar.
Music
To prison, eyes, ne'er look on liberty!
Exeunt GARDINER and Page
SCENE VIII. A plain near Actium.
A join'd-stool.
The Lords of Ross, Beaumond, and Willoughby,
My breast I'll burst with straining of my courage
Between the elements of air and earth,
Exit Ghost
[Aside]  True; from a gentleman to a fool.
Farewell, thou latter spring! farewell, All-hallown summer!
When I to sulphurous and tormenting flames
There is not only disgrace and dishonour in that,
'Faith, there's no way to be rid on't but by the
For this revolt of thine, methinks, is like
To stand on either part.
I'll set thee free for this.
Therefore, have done: some grief shows much of love;
Of her that threw it: noble she was, and thought
I take it, is a gentlemanlike offer.
honour is rewarding my dependents. Moth, follow.
blessing: but not as your daughter may conceive.
I would not kill thy unprepared spirit;
Nor I.
Witnessing storms to come, woe and unrest:
And when he please to make commotion,
And each hour's joy wrecked with a week of teen.
Do grow beneath their shoulders. This to hear
My tongue should catch your tongue's sweet melody.
Sir, I foretold you then what would ensue:
What he hath utter'd I have writ my sister
Like holy Phoebus' car. Give me thy hand:
me quivers. Scurvy knave! Pray you, sir, a word:
ground is threescore and ten miles afoot with me;
Statilius show'd the torch-light, but, my lord,
Striking his head
By circumstance, to curse thy cursed self.
The purchase is to make men glorious;
On, good Roderigo: I'll deserve your pains.
Hath newly pass'd between this youth and me.
I read it in the grammar long ago.
After that things are set in order here,
Mangles true judgment and bereaves the state
Let not your hate encounter with my love
It were but necessary you were waked,
I pray you, think you question with the Jew:
house; he cannot 'scape me; 'tis impossible he
Where should I lose that handkerchief, Emilia?
Not Shafalus to Procrus was so true.
Look for no less than death.
purpose to marry, I will think nothing to any
Swearest thou, ungracious boy? henceforth ne'er look
By heaven, he echoes me,
Where horses have been nimbler than the sands
Master Ford, you must pray, and not follow the
As I have read, sir; and the best of them too.
But join in friendship, as your lords have done.
Saving your merry humour, here's the note
Looking on QUEEN ANNE
courtier, would hazard the winning both of first and last.
Your kindness better.
It shall be moon, or star, or what I list,
Will money buy 'em?
And deeper than oblivion we do bury
'T has done, upon the premises, but justice:
Who should attend on him? He makes up the file
And yet she is inferior to none.
What thou hast said to me.
gentlewoman about me; and I know, Kate, you will to
What's that?
lying! I grant you I was down and out of breath;
Heavens, can you suffer hell so to prevail?
Concolinel.
Than the severity of the public power
action of slander too.
Men of peace, well encountered.
Which on more view, of many mine being one
Come, thou monarch of the vine,
As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
You, Roderigo! come, sir, I am for you.
That thought you worthy of it.
I nursed her daughter, that you talk'd withal;
This hath some seeming.
As, deathmen, you have rid this sweet young prince!
He does confess he feels himself distracted;
Thou'rt a scholar; let us therefore eat and drink.
If once they join in trial. Tell your nephew,
As friendship wears at feasts, keep with Bohemia
Let me ask you one word in private.
In one of those same sheets.
One feast, one house, one mutual happiness.
Sent from my brother Worcester, whencesoever.
which is politic, nor the lady's, which is nice, nor
That English may as French, French Englishmen,
But I would have him dead, my Lord of Suffolk,
First, to do greetings to thy royal person;
Why, farewell, Portia. We must die, Messala:
if your father will do me any honour, so; if not, let
Be innocent of the knowledge, dearest chuck,
She is importunate, indeed distract:
There lock yourself, and send him word you are dead.
sweet-faced man; a proper man, as one shall see in a
Cry, 'havoc!' kings; back to the stained field,
You and you are heart in heart
Do not say so.
Signior Baptista may remember me,
And that which you did swear to keep for me,
But are you not ashamed? nay, are you not,
Resume that spirit, when you were wont to say,
What wouldst do then, Apemantus?
man's good wit seconded with the forward child
What, sir?
Marry, sir, the letter, very orderly; having nothing
And I was going to your lodging, Cassio.
wit near him, that railed upon me till her pinked
Master Brook, I will not lie to you: I was at her
And those his golden beams to you here lent
shall see a masque; but if you do, then it was not
I doubt it is no other but the main;
You said you would believe me;
Is Talbot slain, the Frenchmen's only scourge,
There is a plot against my life, my crown;
Instruction, manners, mysteries, and trades,
withdrawing.
To cudgel you and make you take the hatch,
Is made my gaoler to attend on me.
She never yet was foolish that was fair;
Of Bedlam beggars, who, with roaring voices,
And will to-morrow midnight solemnly
you sent hither to praise me?
That's done, as near as the extremest ends
DON
With a coronet of fresh and fragrant flowers;
Well, God give her good rest! What hath he sent her?
Where is this rash and most unfortunate man?
Say on, my loving lord.
And take with you free power to ratify,
And yonder is the wolf that makes this spoil.
In Antiochus and his daughter you have heard
Hell only danceth at so harsh a chime.
Look you speak justly.
To a most hideous object: thence it came
Upon a time,--unhappy was the clock
purse; follow thou the wars; defeat thy favour with
That will I make before I let thee go.
O heavy burthen!
Exeunt
That Rome is but a wilderness of tigers?
I mean to take possession of my right.
Either past or not arrived to pith and puissance;
So please you, sir, their speed
And thou shalt read when mine begin to dazzle.
With one that saw him die: who did report
And marry her at Eton. Go send to Falstaff straight.
Enter ROSALIND
Enter MACBETH, Doctor, and Attendants
Your loves, as mine to you: farewell.
Therefore--
The tyrant custom, most grave senators,
They say he is a very man per se,
sir?
Like to a tenement or pelting farm:
Was ne'er distributed.
Exit FALSTAFF
As much as child e'er loved, or father found;
Provoke us hither now to slaughter thee.
Stand close.
Inhabits our frail blood.
Lay hands on him; a dog!
A bell rings
The like to you kind Varro.
The crown imperial; lilies of all kinds,
From so divine a temple, to commix
No, Paris is not; for you know 'tis true,
wives be as free as heart can wish or tongue can tell.
puny drawer to what end he gave me the sugar; and do
Your queen and I are devils: yet go on;
'had'! how sad a passage 'tis!--whose skill was
And steep'd in blood? Ah, what an unkind hour
will do as I may: that is my rest, that is the
But set them down horrible traitors: spare not the babe,
'I Pray, sir'--Plague upon't! I cannot bring
Fair Portia's counterfeit! What demi-god
'Twere sure enough.
Bid her come hither: go.
Am I not i' the right, old Jephthah?
What man is that?
her wheel, that her gifts may henceforth be bestowed equally.
Or I will drag thee on a hurdle thither.
Well, ruffian, I must pocket up these wrongs, Because--
tavern and tavern: but the sack that thou hast
O, thereby hangs a tail.
As when the golden sun salutes the morn,
No, not that name was given me at the font,
And when that hour o'erslips me in the day
But go thy ways; go, give that changing piece
Say thou, shall call her mistress.' So he nodded,
Bids thee, with most divine integrity,
Pucelle or puzzel, dolphin or dogfish,
My love, without retention or restraint,
what; for if I tell you, I am no true Athenian. I
A weeder-out of his proud adversaries,
And here, in sight of heaven, to Rome I swear,
Enter Clown and FABIAN
And my dear father: how features are abroad,
When Oxford had me down, he rescued me,
By lengthening my return. From Gallia
Enter FALSTAFF and BARDOLPH
Farewell: I'll grow a talker for this gear.
her earnest?
Where's Dolabella,
Myself to be a marvellous proper man.
I fear, too many curses on their beads
That lived amongst men.
The king is come: deal mildly with his youth;
They that bear
Let them pronounce the steep Tarpeian death,
As she would catch another Antony
I pray you, after the lieutenant; go.
Have humbled to all strokes: that I am wretched
never saw you before in all my life.
And meant to wreck thee; but, beshrew my jealousy!
Ho! now you strike like the blind man: 'twas the
Of his great name and estimation,
Let it suffice the greatness of your powers
Shall we send that foolish carrion, Mistress
And like a civil war set'st oath to oath,
DON
she'll fit it.
Timon will to the woods; where he shall find
Accuse some innocent and forswear myself,
Will do his bidding. Brutus, come apace,
And you can witness with me this is true.
Re-enter ANNE PAGE
That henceforth he shall trouble us no more.
entertainment.
I pray you, stay; by hell and all hell's torments
That had to him derived your anger, did I
His fears were, that the interview betwixt
Between you 'greed concerning her observance?
That died some twelvemonth since, then leaving her
Proper deformity seems not in the fiend
Is he ready
He hath promised you more than that, or there be liars.
Though full of our displeasure, yet we free thee
reading it he changed almost into another man.
And this is all I have done. She's a fair creature:
Thy son I kill'd for his presumption.
Rail on the Lord's enointed: strike, I say!
Thou wouldst have mercy on me.
To SCARUS
things catch.
Give us the proudest prisoner of the Goths,
I will bestow him, and will answer well
though not personal, have been royally attorneyed
Yet one time he did call me by my name:
I shall receive the money for the same.
He shall well know
A gilt nutmeg.
send ministers to me, asses, and do all they can to
Enter a Messenger
Of what you should forget. Now, good my liege
For her, my lord,
For he to-day that sheds his blood with me
Then know, it is your fault that you resign
Where? at the senate-house?
All the charactery of my sad brows:
Sir, with all my heart. This worthy signior, I
The cockle of rebellion, insolence, sedition,
And that in way of caution, I must tell you,
What levity's in youth.
While Philip breathes.
Then you, belike, suspect these noblemen
My gorgeous palace for a hermitage,
Though wayward fortune did malign my state,
His mother was a votaress of my order:
But wherefore weeps Warwick, my valiant son?
As all the world--why, he's a man of wax.
Through you, increase our wonder and set up
smile with an austere regard of control,--
Re-enter LUCETTA
and set London bridge on fire; and, if you can, burn
And that hath dazzled my reason's light;
Her new-built virtue and obedience.
Was not Charles, the duke's wrestler, here to speak with me?
Upon the love you bear me, get you in.
Come on my right hand, for this ear is deaf,
You cannot but forbear to murder me:
Should I, in these my borrow'd flaunts, behold
money of the king's coming down the hill; 'tis going
And generally to the crown and seat of France
By all your vows of love and that great vow
SCENE VII. Gloucester's castle.
Fair Leda's daughter had a thousand wooers;
They are, my lord, without the palace gate.
I am resolved that thou shalt spend some time
Provincial roses on my razed shoes, get me a
So do we.
I'll stay no longer question.
invisible soul,--
What, what, what? ill luck, ill luck?
Therefore he sends to know your lordship's pleasure,
How much money must I have?
And so she did.
that cannot go, sweet Isis, I beseech thee! and let
For the which she wept heartily and said she cared
'Tis even so. Hero and Margaret have by this
All Greek, and this all Troy; my mother's blood
Or Bassianus so degenerate,
And I will please you what you will demand.
Hath suffer'd under praise.
man in Athens.
I cannot be so answer'd.
Against your peace: Love doth approach disguised,
But, O! the treacherous Fastolfe wounds my heart,
'be opposite with a kinsman, surly with servants;
Master Peaseblossom, I shall desire you of more
No; 'twas the vane on the house.
The Lady Anne pass from her coronation?
Yonder man is carried to prison.
SCENE I. London. A street.
Save men's opinions and my living blood,
Enter ANTONY and others, with CAESAR's body
Enter AUFIDIUS with the second Servingman
I'll lend you all my life to do you service.
Thy brother by decree is banished:
For this down-trodden equity, we tread
an unclean mind carries virtuous qualities, there
For what offence have I this fortnight been
Tongues spit their duties out, and cold hearts freeze
wit stirring and leave the faction of fools.
Joy had the like conception in our eyes
A' said once, the devil would have him about women.
So much the more
Warwick, what are thy news? and yours, fair queen?
Enter MACBETH
left to protest.
And dangers are to me indifferent.
for you all; you have horses for yourselves:
I must serve him so too, tell him of an intent
Of spirit so still and quiet, that her motion
Enter BORACHIO and CONRADE
To those fresh morning drops upon the rose,
And I have heard, you knights of Tyre
Bid our commanders lead their charges off
Behold, there stand the caskets, noble prince:
But tell the traitor, in the high'st degree
She cannot endure to hear tell of a husband.
suffered under that shape, I beseech you take it for
He hath not told us of the captain yet:
Transform us not to women.
Labouring for nine.
We cannot all be masters, nor all masters
Unto the body of a dismal yew,
This growing image of thy fiend-like face?
called before us. Away with her to prison! Go to;
This fellow here, Lord Timon, this thy creature,
Did young Lorenzo swear he loved her well,
Now 'gins to bite the spirits. I do beseech you
think him as concave as a covered goblet or a
Since when, his oath is broke; for, as I hear,
So farewell to the little good you bear me.
give him his desire. Back you shall not to the
This man, lady, hath robbed many beasts of their
'zounds, I would make him eat a piece of my sword.
I'll go to him, and undertake to bring him
Relates in purpose only to Achilles.
Advance our half-faced sun, striving to shine,
scratched face.
Be gone, I say: the gods have heard me swear.
I understand thy looks: that pretty Welsh
No doubt well bring it to a happy issue.
My woeful self up in a mourning house,
And I am sick at heart.
Dispatch the most convenient messenger:
And what impossibility would slay
There's one did laugh in's sleep, and one cried
she is here, a man may live as quiet in hell as in a
For though usurpers sway the rule awhile,
Even like a stony image, cold and numb.
Did you but know the city's usuries
Not a false gallop.
Because it is an enemy to thee;
He made a blushing cital of himself;
Is it so nominated in the bond?
Exeunt, carrying her away
Even in the cannon's mouth. And then the justice,
They are well dispatch'd; now to my daughter's letter:
Alarum. Enter BRUTUS and MESSALA
To be ungentle.
poor three, and they can do no more than they can
You fled for vantage, everyone will swear;
Let this dissension first be tried by fight,
As a long-parted mother with her child
against me,
little: he always loved our sister most; and
With honour, as in war, since that to both
You shall go see your pupils presently.
Keep your word, Silvius, that you'll marry her.
Is that lead slow which is fired from a gun?
Virtue itself: these shrugs, these hums and ha's,
talking. Trinculo, the king and all our company
Sprinkle cool patience. Whereon do you look?
With female fairies will his tomb be haunted,
As place Duke Humphrey for the king's protector?
Truly, I thought there had been one number more,
Was cried incomparable; and the ensuing night
Into the danger of this adverse town;
wholesome answer, I will do your mother's
I see you're angry:
To be young again, if we could: I will be a fool in
I turn you not away; but, like a master
Of the king's ship
From what you rightly are.
And will as tenderly be led by the nose
Hand in hand, with fairy grace,
I have news to tell you: come, come, give me your hand.
Else I should tell him,--well, i' faith I should,
No, my good lord; but Pluto sends you word,
That he which is was wish'd until he were;
True; out indeed.
I gave him no order; I gave him the stuff.
With sands that will not bear your enemies' boats,
not-pated, agate-ring, puke-stocking, caddis-garter,
But Barnardine must die this afternoon:
Yet, I remember, when I was in France,
Hearing you were retired, your friends fall'n off,
Soldiers, not thieves.
Judas's own children.
How do I thank thee, that this carnal cur
But let him say so then, and let him go;
you hindered by the sergeant, to tarry for the hoy
Re-enter IAGO, with a light
to the court? for, by my fay, I cannot reason.
The duke and all that know me in the city
Count wisdom as no member of the war,
In debating which was best, we shall part with neither.
Here is the cate-log of her condition.
I will be found most cunning in my patience;
Stay, my Lord Talbot; for my lady craves
you and pray with you.
My haste may not admit it;
Up, cousin, up; your heart is up, I know,
Not so; but I answer you right painted cloth, from
But for your private satisfaction,
With triumphs, mirth and rare solemnity.
At my misfortunes? can thy spirit wonder
I love thee so, that, maugre all thy pride,
I think no less. Dost thou not wish in heart
Are you ready, sir?
You'll not confess, you'll not confess.
All that which Henry Fifth had gotten?
Must bear my beating to his grave--shall join
You little Jack-a-Lent, have you been true to us?
Nothing, good mounsieur, but to help Cavalery Cobweb
Good masters, take it not unkindly, pray,
Exit LYSANDER, as following the voice
With some delight or other.
How say you to that, Malvolio?
Come, boy.
Yonder is Silvia; and Silvia's mine.
Between the promise of his greener days
Had come along with me, but that his mistress
Or bathed thy growing with our heated bloods.
My strong imagination sees a crown
'Tis Joan, not we, by whom the day is won;
But, since thy outside looks so fair and warlike,
Do I look like a cudgel or a hovel-post, a staff or
What if a man bring him a hundred pound or two, to
My purpose was not to have seen you here;
Reputation, reputation, reputation! O, I have lost
Be manly, and take comfort.
I will myself into the pulpit first,
Enter four or five Players
Himself! Alas, poor Troilus! I would he were.
Of that great shadow I did represent;
Where Cressid lay that night.
unprovide my mind again: this night, Iago.
Thy heinous, manifest, and many treasons,
The crows and choughs that wing the midway air
Which makes her both the heart and place
Say 'pardon,' king; let pity teach thee how:
All the power this charm doth owe.
My duty to you both, on equal love,
Enter CINNA
Win her with gifts, if she respect not words:
This is a slight unmeritable man,
But must be, will his free hours languish for
The angry lords with all expedient haste.
Seese is not good to give putter; your belly is all putter.
than lack it where there is such abundance.
Yet in such rule that the Venetian law
Like to a little kingdom, suffers then
Sweet are the uses of adversity,
And rear it in the place your father's stands.
Beshrew me, if I would do such a wrong
That my Nerissa shall be sworn on is,
Here, Peter Quince.
There's none but witches do inhabit here;
Ay, with these crystal beads heaven shall be bribed
Here alarum; they are beaten back by the English with great loss. Re-enter CHARLES, ALENCON, and REIGNIER
Except to steal your thoughts, my gentle queen.
'Anon he finds him
And Buckingham, back'd with the hardy Welshmen,
An your waist, mistress, were as slender as my wit,
with these tidings.
[Aside]  Very wisely, puppies!
Drawing a dagger
To tyrannous hate! Swell, bosom, with thy fraught,
Happily
Our purposed hunting shall be set aside.
Now, brother king, farewell, and sit you fast,
If any born at Ephesus be seen
Nay, 'tis twice two months, my lord.
Good night, sweet lord Menelaus.
With bur-docks, hemlock, nettles, cuckoo-flowers,
Our fancies are more giddy and unfirm,
And, fly thou how thou canst, they'll tangle thee:
The dam will wake; and, if she wind you once,
Re-enter ARIEL, invisible, playing and singing; FERDINAND following
No, sir, Helen: could you not find out that by her
O, 'tis true:
nothing handsome about him. In brief, since I do
Or shall we give the signal to our rage
His Jewish heart: therefore, I do beseech you,
Oxford, Oxford, for Lancaster!
Seem they in motion? Here are sever'd lips,
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  And so, my lord protector,
O'ercome with pride, ambitious past all thinking,
If there be such a dart in princes' frowns,
Give me a living reason she's disloyal.
I never practised it.
Then on, my lords; and France be fortunate!
I will not wish ye half my miseries;
By a familiar demonstration of the working, my tough senior.
Which should sustain the bound and high curvet
Too well what love women to men may owe:
And could it not enforce them to relent,
And swell so much the higher by their ebb.
Exit
Thou art sensible in nothing but blows, and so is an
Unless we sweep 'em from the door with cannons--
It shall advantage more than do us wrong.
devoured many a gentleman of your house: I promise
That man might ne'er be wretched for his mind.
What fashion, madam shall I make your breeches?
To hear of pleasure's name;
From our achievements, though perform'd at height,
And show'd me silks that he had bought for me,
With cunning hast thou filch'd my daughter's heart,
Which by my Lord of Winchester we mean
Enter the two Murderers
Here.
With age and altering rheums? can he speak? hear?
My Lord Melun, let this be copied out,
It helps not, it prevails not: talk no more.
Alas! how should you govern any kingdom,
May never glorious sun reflex his beams
That had befall'n us. As we paced along
lady, and her death shall fall heavy on you. Let me
Is wretchedness deprived that benefit,
What you must say; that he shall not perceive
Here, here, here he comes.
In their sweet bosoms, that never war advance
Of love, of worldly matters and direction,
Exit
When I was last in Holborn,
Approach, and speak.
Why, whither shall we go?
Who hath he left behind him general?
My sovereign liege, I do beseech your majesty
Which since I know they virtuously are placed,
'Lo, Caesar is afraid'?
And I, forsooth, in love! I, that have been love's whip;
To be of worth and worthy estimation
Like a rich jewel in an Ethiope's ear;
Ay, ay: O, lay me by my mistress' side.
issuing blood
So strange, outrageous, and so variable,
Sir, she came in great with child; and longing,
You are never without your tricks: you may, you may.
sword I would have made you four tall fellows skip like rats.
Enter JAQUES
With opening titles miscreate, whose right
And dare us with his cap like larks.
Here, wear this jewel for me, 'tis my picture;
To be ashamed to be my father's child!
And little recks to find the way to heaven
That is, to be the champion of our church!
What is it that you would impart to me?
My sovereign lord, bestow yourself with speed:
time gives it proof. I did love you once.
To a most noble judge, the king my master.
Think'st thou I'ld make a lie of jealousy,
The house will be the quieter.
Exeunt
head-piece.
As my soul prompts it. Spirit, fine spirit! I'll free thee
brother John; this to my Lord of Westmoreland.
In the devotion of a subject's love,
If ever he have wife, let her he made
I'll sacrifice the lamb that I do love,
My mind was never yet more mercenary.
queen's lords.
Therefore thy earliness doth me assure
SCENE II. A bedchamber in the castle: DESDEMONA in bed asleep;
Therefore, so please thee to return with us
What must I do?
that Hero loves me; intend a kind of zeal both to the
I dare be sworn
As was your former; but she shall be such
And that unbodied figure of the thought
Shall raise such artificial sprites
He speaks by leave and by permission,
That in a twink she won me to her love.
Stand in bold cure.
That in a Christian climate souls refined
Troilus, I would not have you fight to-day.
Music, whilst BASSANIO comments on the caskets to himself
And rank me with the barbarous multitudes.
You are naught, you are naught: I'll mark the play.
A servant that he bred, thrill'd with remorse,
Now, pray, my lord, let's see the devil's writ.
With all bound humbleness.
though he had no hand in his death, shall receive
For by this knot thou shalt so surely tie
your ear, she's as fartuous a civil modest wife, and
A good note; that keeps you from the blow of the law.
The third day comes a frost, a killing frost,
The estate of my poor queen. Leave me alone;
To be the realm of France, and Pharamond
He had a black mouth that said other of him.
gown; having come from a day-bed, where I have left
Have patience, gentle friends, I must not read it;
Is that the one will help to cut the other.
For then, I hope, thou wilt not keep him long,
Some speedy messenger bid her repair
Which any print of goodness wilt not take,
That presently you hie you home to bed.
And hang it round with all my wanton pictures:
look you, of my mind, as touching the direction of
So beggars marry many.
Indeed, a tapster's arithmetic may soon bring his
As able to perform't; his mind and place
paths our very petticoats will catch them.
Is leaden servitor to dull delay;
That dreamers often lie.
How to deny them, who to advance and who
Ay, and twenty such.
SCENE I. Rome. A street.
Between my conscience and my cousin's death.
O, then, what graces in my love do dwell,
And to the world and awkward casualties
Sweet, do not scorn her so.
place call upon me; and dispatch with Angelo, that
If they had swallow'd poison, 'twould appear
Of this my privacy
I'll make't my comfort
For, ere the six years that he hath to spend
I, with blowing the fire, shall warm myself; for,
victuals, and would fain have meat. O, be not like
The queen is dead.
In thy best robes uncover'd on the bier
He that hath lost her too; so is the queen,
When Roscius was an actor in Rome,--
Of all the fair resort of gentlemen
Die quoth-a? Now gods forbid! I have a gown here;
Let me not shame respect; but give me leave
come unbutton here.
As to Jove's statue, and the commons made
take his bond.
I never in my life did look on him.
Did lose his lustre: I did hear him groan:
Allow not nature more than nature needs,
I thank thee for myself.
Great marshal to Henry the Sixth
A mile before his tent fall down, and knee
Leonatus' friends.
They say, in him they fear your highness' death;
Here pleasures court mine eyes, and mine eyes shun them,
Like a full-acorn'd boar, a German one,
In this the heaven figures some event.
Methinks you prescribe to yourself very preposterously.
Mistress, 'respice finem,' respect your end; or
From bourn to bourn, region to region.
'Tis meet he be condemn'd by course of law.
In graces and in qualities of breeding;
Enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS
For disobedience to your father's will,
Nor would we deign him burial of his men
Out of the bowels of the harmless earth,
Seest thou this letter? take it up, I pray thee,
That Hermia should give answer of her choice?
Speak freely of our acts, or else our grave,
Then there's my glove;
Cannot but yield you forth to public thanks,
To be married to her: friar, you come to marry her.
Either this is the envy in you, folly, or mistaking:
What plagues and what portents! what mutiny!
I shall do so;
Say, why is this? wherefore? what should we do?
But kept a reservation to be follow'd
Proud of their numbers and secure in soul,
and make him good friend to the people!
I can no more: the king, the king's to blame.
What forgeries you please; marry, none so rank
Which if you shall refuse, when I am dead,
humour and like enough to consent. What would you
To burn this night with torches: know, my hearts,
Now minutely revolts upbraid his faith-breach;
O all you host of heaven! O earth! what else?
It is my duty, sir.
He will have other means to cut you off.
With sorrow snares relenting passengers,
Hear me yourself; for that which I must speak
What bastard doth not? Who will go with me?
I was a chaste wife to my grave: embalm me,
I would not by my will have troubled you;
Good night, mother.
His country's peace.
Kneels to THAISA
And thou this day hadst kept thy chair in peace.
Lend thine ear.
Knight of the noble order of Saint George,
Sound, sound, sound, sound!
The Frenchman gave you, bring you in fine together
You do extend
Be not disturb'd with my infirmity:
Ay, fool.
And must be buried but as an intent
Thou didst usurp my place, and dost thou not
Come on, then; horse and chariots let us have,
Look, what I speak, my life shall prove it true;
If thou hadst said him nay, it had been sin:
And corn shall fly asunder: for, I know,
list of my voyage.
possessed with a fury, exceeds her as much in beauty
Desire them home. Give me thy hand, my cousin;
Come, bustle, bustle; caparison my horse.
If I should say, I saw such islanders--
And liberal largess, are grown somewhat light,
Most reverend and grave elders, to desire
the dukes fall upon the king.
But to confront the visage of offence?
Made in her concave shores?
Receive the blood: and when that they are dead,
think the duke hath lost never a man, but one that
Into a bush: under which bush's shade
For he that brought them, in the very heat
Whip me such honest knaves. Others there are
He should have struck, not spoke; or that these pirates,
One Gilbert Peck, his chancellor--
And the beholders of this tragic play,
Exeunt
the king, his crown and dignity, thou hast built a
Since thou, created to be awed by man,
sweet sewer.
your guard; for your opposite hath in him what
These that I bring unto their latest home,
Till each man drop by lottery. But if these,
Unless his noble mother, and his wife;
Enter KING HENRY V, GLOUCESTER, BEDFORD, EXETER, WARWICK, WESTMORELAND, and Attendants
Caesar sits down in Alexandria; where
O, belike it is the Bishop of Carlisle.
A mole cinque-spotted, like the crimson drops
Of us must Pompey presently be sought,
The fitchew, nor the soiled horse, goes to 't
Do, do: we steal by line and level, an't like your grace.
The Dauphin is preparing hitherward,
I am thy father's spirit,
that's stinking. Let go thy hold when a great wheel
O thou eternal Mover of the heavens.
Didst thou never see Titan kiss a dish of butter?
Of her tongue she cannot, for that's writ down she
One vial full of Edward's sacred blood,
from her: she is no equal for his birth: you may
Exit Herald
SCENE X. Another part of the plain.
But note me, signior.
Come hither, crack-hemp.
Why, there's more gold.
And see how he will take it at your hands.
This borrow'd passion stands for true old woe;
Now fear I this will give it start again;
the happiness of life.
Your eyes do menace me: why look you pale?
And after one hour more 'twill be eleven;
As I intend, Clifford, to thrive to-day,
In restless ecstasy. Duncan is in his grave;
Alarum. They fight, and PETER strikes him down
Your wife would give you little thanks for that,
In God's name, I'll ascend the regal throne.
Ere he can spread his sweet leaves to the air,
I think her old familiar is asleep:
To beat me out of Egypt; my messenger
I mind to tell him plainly what I think.
Falls asleep
that her eyes ran o'er.
And 'stablish quietness on every side.
A heavier task could not have been imposed
What wouldst thou have us do, Andronicus?
So shall each lord of Greece, from tent to tent:
For how can I help them, and not myself?
Thou,--and thou,--and thou:--you have served me well,
DON
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy. But come;
Even in a dream, were we divided from them
Who, having some advantage on Octavius,
Re-enter CATESBY
And set abroad new business for you all?
Farewell, and thanks.
To show yourself your father's son in deed
Who brought it?
She returns this ring to you, sir: you might have
No, indeed, sir; the Lady Olivia has no folly: she
And prays the Moor be safe; for they were parted
I'll see before I doubt; when I doubt, prove;
And not of any challenge of desert,
Fly to the court of England and unfold
Should I have wish'd a thing, it had been he.
Northampton and in Leicestershire, shalt find
And so did mine too, as the matter falls;
Or foul felonious thief that fleeced poor passengers,
When have I injured thee? when done thee wrong?
News have I, that my Nell is dead i' the spital
And proofs as clear as founts in July when
I ever contradicted your desire,
PROLOGUE
Exit Provost
Marcius would have all from you; Marcius,
I saw him not.
SCENE III. A room in Cymbeline's palace.
By many an ounce--he dropp'd it for his country;
Tut, were it farther off, I'll pluck it down.
Till George be pack'd with post-horse up to heaven.
The tide is now: nay, not thy tide of tears;
Stay thy revengeful hand; thou hast no cause to fear.
more the pity, his white hairs do witness it; but
I never saw the like.
Good morrow, Hubert.
but that I am afeard.
If this same were a churchyard where we stand,
Will you have me, lady?
Which way they went.
That will say anything but were they false
Whose high upreared and abutting fronts
Away with him! and do as I command ye.
Having no warrant.
Here is your hand and seal for what I did.
Go, good partner, go, get you to Francis Seacole;
of bastard in the Half-Moon,' or so. But, Ned, to
Noble and young,
All houses in the suburbs of Vienna must be plucked down.
My nobles leave me; and my state is braved,
Forced to retire by fury of the wind:
Soft! who comes here?
That I do groan withal. Thou art to die.
O, here it is. Uncle, I must come forth.
That your poor friends must woo your company?
Under what title shall I woo for thee,
And therefore will come.
the search,
Falstaff's a knave, a cuckoldly knave; here are his
E'en such as you speak to me.
O, full of careful business are his looks!
It best agrees with night. Come, civil night,
Yea, look'st thou pale? let me see the writing.
Of all opinion that grows rank in them
Three great oaths would scarce make that be believed.
Storm still
If that thy gentry, Britain, go before
You rise to play and go to bed to work.
I would set an ox-head to your lion's hide,
And late, five thousand: to Varro and to Isidore
clovest thy crown i' the middle, and gavest away
That which, to appear itself, must not yet be
'Tis beauty truly blent, whose red and white
And then?
The action of good women: there is hope
Which fourteen hundred years ago were nail'd
So that all hope is vain.
Sound, trumpets; and set forward, combatants.
To fall it on Gonzalo.
A cutpurse of the empire and the rule,
My name is Proculeius.
And suits well for a servant with my fortunes:
As well as one so great and so forlorn
No, noble mistress;'tis fresh morning with me
Enter DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS and EROS, meeting
bridge as you shall see in a summer's day. But it
make it good.
We are for law: he dies; urge it no more,
Should my performance perish.
That thought them sure of you.
Charles Delabreth, high constable of France;
Enter FLAMINIUS, SERVILIUS, and other Servants
O lady, weep no more, lest I give cause
Which thou forget'st. This damn'd witch Sycorax,
And every day I cannot come to woo.
Is worse in kings than beggars. My dear lord!
Saw sighs reek from you, noted well your passion:
I have abandon'd Troy, left my possession,
Than fly to others that we know not of?
sleep, and a hangman to help him to bed, I think he
For shame, bring Juliet forth; her lord is come.
I pray thee, bear my former answer back:
Graceless! wilt thou deny thy parentage?
Nothing so kind, but something pitiful!
But tie him not to be their bedfellow.
Like to the old Vice,
Thou tedious rogue! I am sorry I shall lose
houses over your heads, ravish your wives and
O! thy vile lady!
Nothing so strong and fortunate as I.
Join with the traitor, and they jointly swear
Enter BERTRAM
I do not know
politician.
winds and waters sighs and tears; they are greater
And that his friends by deputation could not
in his judgment that makes it.
That their negotiations all must slack,
As my thoughts make thee, and as my farthest band
It would allay the burning quality
Exeunt all except PRINCE HENRY and PETO
Exeunt
Freed and enfranchised, not a party to
though I must be content to bear with those that say
Nor can I utter all our bitter grief,
Will stand a tip-toe when the day is named,
'Better a witty fool, than a foolish wit.'
I am your wife in all obedience.
[Reads]  Item, A capon,. . 2s. 2d.
Clerk-like experienced, which no less adorns
He's fallen in love with your foulness and she'll
They do not go together.
Of ashy semblance, meagre, pale and bloodless,
Give up thy staff: Henry will to himself
As thou art in desire? Wouldst thou have that
Did scandal many a holy tear, took pity
DON
places alike. Make not a city feast of it, to let
Crams his rich thievery up, he knows not how:
graver purpose, I hope.
That he should die is worthy policy;
Must be the mistress to this theoric:
To soar with his light feathers, and so bound,
purpose you undertake is dangerous;'--why, that's
Thou little know'st how thou dost startle me,
Re-enter PHILOSTRATE
Exit
Revisit'st thus the glimpses of the moon,
Pleasant and helpful to him!
It shall content me best: be gentle to her.
Will you shog off? I would have you solus.
Look, in this place ran Cassius' dagger through:
The benefit thereof is always granted
To be revenged on Rivers, Vaughan, Grey:
Alarums. MATTHEW GOFFE is slain, and all the rest. Then enter CADE, with his company.
the porter let in Susan Grindstone and Nell.
Albeit the quality of the time and quarrel
The fineness of the gold and chargeful fashion.
This is the letter to your ladyship.
If not, bleed France, and peace ascend to heaven,
And I am lowted by a traitor villain
Bless'd his three sons with his victorious arm,
And keeps the oath which by that god he swears,
am a Jew else, an Ebrew Jew.
that touch pitch will be defiled: the most peaceable
Will never grant this forfeiture to hold.
Return, good Catesby, to thy lord again;
Which easily endures not article
The fewer men, the greater share of honour.
I learn'd of thee. How! not dead? not dead?
please you to abrogate scurrility.
To show an unfelt sorrow is an office
Madam, in happy time, what day is that?
Then goes he to the length of all his arm;
Hum! go to thy cold bed, and warm thee.
Why, sir, I trust I may have leave to speak;
Most welcome home!
How fares thy mistress?
Two curs shall tame each other: pride alone
Pointing to the nurse
Through this house each fairy stray.
The Dauphin is too wilful-opposite,
From the rich Jew, a special deed of gift,
Very well, my lord
the very description of their meeting-place; and
Enter SIMONIDES, THAISA, Lords, Attendants, and Knights, from tilting
Have we in hiding us? This way, the Romans
though I be but the prince of Wales, yet I am king
The people know it; and have now received
Can from the lap of Egypt's widow pluck
For he that holds his kingdom holds the law;
Or four and twenty times the pilot's glass
Ever a friend whose thoughts more truly labour
One, lady, if you knew his pure heart's truth,
To see this sight, it irks my very soul.
Were it my cue to fight, I should have known it
I had forgot them--were two winking Cupids
Although I think 'twas in another sense;
Uncle of Winchester, I pray, read on.
What, in the midst of the street?
to depute Cassio in Othello's place.
Your grace hath still been famed for virtuous;
Bull-bearing Milo his addition yield
Thy mother felt more than a mother's pain,
This is a strange abuse. Let's see thy face.
Enter BAPTISTA, VINCENTIO, GREMIO, the Pedant,  LUCENTIO, BIANCA, PETRUCHIO, KATHARINA, HORTENSIO,  and Widow, TRANIO, BIONDELLO, and GRUMIO the Serving-men with Tranio bringing in a banquet
To murder me and my good Lord of Gloucester?
To have no man come over me! why, shall I always
They are sheep and calves which seek out assurance
My true love's passion: therefore pardon me,
O cousin, cousin!
Eleven hours I spent to write it over,
Re-enter TITINIUS, with MESSALA
assembly: whither should they come?
One, sir, that for his love dares yet do more
O noble emperor, do not fight by sea;
Of fair demesnes, youthful, and nobly train'd,
were unhandsome; and being no other but as she is, I
I am denied to sue my livery here,
unworthy thinking: I dare you to this match: here's my ring.
Exeunt
Am bound to under-bear.
Well; what further?
Exeunt. Flourish
Whose fortunes Rome's best citizens applaud!
I do, my lord; but long I shall not stay
But on us both did haggish age steal on
O God's lady dear!
And all that we upon this side the sea,
To hear this of him; and could wish he were
All springs reduce their currents to mine eyes,
He was most princely: ever witness for him
Why, this was moulded on a porringer;
The king's will be perform'd!
four of his blind brothers and sisters went to it.
Do hear what we do?
Well, gaoler, on. Pray God, Bassanio come
meat, and yet thy head hath been beaten as addle as
Now, fie upon my false French! By mine honour, in
It requires swift foot.
Come, bring your luggage nobly on your back:
Whate'er it be,
thee!' and by the operation of the second cup draws
That's due to all the villains past, in being,
Spur them to ruthful work, rein them from ruth.
And as I truly fight, defend me heaven!
As due to love as thoughts and dreams and sighs,
Set armed discord 'twixt these perjured kings!
Rises
'Tis best thou diest quickly.
Hark, how the villain would close now, after his
Hid in an auger-hole, may rush, and seize us?
Thy crystal window ope; look out;
And more above, hath his solicitings,
From seasons such as these? O, I have ta'en
Yes, I beseech your grace: I am not yet well breathed.
But does foul pranks which fair and wise ones do.
Entomb'd upon the very hem o' the sea;
Here.
O sir, I do; and will repute you ever
Excite the mortified man.
Could not abide to be with; therefore wast thou
Away, thou issue of a mangy dog!
How oft hast thou with perjury cleft the root!
As witting I no other comfort have.
Enter FALSTAFF disguised as Herne
Sir, good success!
He asks of you, that never used to beg.
How now! interjections? Why, then, some be of
[Aside to SUFFOLK]
Whom all France with their chief assembled strength
To Coriolanus come all joy and honour!
And hid his crisp head in the hollow bank,
Why, how now, uncle Gloucester!
Ay, the most peerless piece of earth, I think,
chooses you, will, no doubt, never be chosen by any
I needs must rest me.
The Tarquin drive, when he was call'd a king.
Nay, if you be an undertaker, I am for you.
So many summers dry; scarce any joy
Hath love in thy old blood no living fire?
Enter KING LEAR, KENT, and Fool
assurance and all the preparation overthrown.
Give me, give me! O, tell not me of fear!
bounty to sing happiness to him. I will tell you a
And look thyself be faultless, thou wert best.
peradventure he shall ever return to have hearing of
No richer in return.
My master is grown quarrelsome. I should knock
Of no allowance to your bosom's truth.
Be not as extreme in submission
Come I appellant to this princely presence.
To what, I pray?
That gives sweet tidings of the sun's uprise?
By my regard, but kill'd none so. Camillo,--
The weird sisters, hand in hand,
Sound a sennet. Enter KING HENRY VI, GLOUCESTER,  CARDINAL, BUCKINGHAM, YORK, SOMERSET, SALISBURY, WARWICK, and the DUCHESS
Even this repays me. We sent our schoolmaster;
We'll not run, Monsieur Monster.
With all swift speed you must away to France.
We did, so please your highness.
Horn-mad, thou villain!
always reason themselves out again. What! a
Admiringly, my liege, at first
How then? sick?
Sore hurt and bruised: the dreadful Sagittary
Ran mad through sorrow: that made me to fear;
What monster's her accuser? Leonatus,
What maintenance he from his friends receives,
tongue to the roof of my mouth, my heart in my
May be he will not touch young Arthur's life,
Thou art resolved?
In asking their good loves, but thou wilt frame
This was the most unkindest cut of all;
What ship of Epidamnum stays for me?
Or durst not, for his craven heart, say thus.
Or did the letters work upon his blood,
Exeunt
When she will play with reason and discourse,
Nay, if an oily palm be not a fruitful
not the man that he would gladly make show to the
Speak, Rome's dear friend, as erst our ancestor,
Kill thy physician, and the fee bestow
He will again be well: if much you note him,
Being black put us in mind they hide the fair;
Exeunt VALENTINE and PROTEUS
Then with a passion would I shake the world;
Pours the poison into the sleeper's ears
No, faith, young Troilus; doff thy harness, youth;
God-den, our neighbours.
Get you to bed; faith, You'll be sick to-morrow
hand. Oh, oh, oh!
Speed then, to take advantage of the field.
Upon thy wedding-day?
This is the very painting of your fear:
with man, woman, or child.
Might equal yours, if both were justly weigh'd.
as well a dark house and a whip as madmen do: and
O Cassius, Brutus gave the word too early;
here's fine revolution, an we had the trick to
All that good time will give us: this attempt
And you yourself shall steer the happy helm.
With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino,
praise, too brown for a fair praise and too little
Against a bird, do I with Mowbray fight.
He holds your temper in a high respect
Can such things be,
To part the queen's proud kindred from the king.
Sing, siren, for thyself and I will dote:
Marry, and amen, how sound is she asleep!
You taught me how to know the face of right,
To a determined scope.
my counterfeiting the action of an old woman,
Who hast the memory of Hermione,
What, are there masques? Hear you me, Jessica:
Belike you slew great number of his people.
How now! what hath befall'n?
Ned, prithee, come out of that fat room, and lend me
Than hew to't with thy sword.
To greet the warriors. Sweet Helen, I must woo you
To reel the streets at noon, and stand the buffet
Thou liest, thou jesting monkey, thou: I would my
May prove coherent. Every night he comes
And for a further grief,--God give you joy!--
Is left untender'd.
daughter of Leonato.
DON
And, in the publication, make no strain,
Heaven guide thy pen to print thy sorrows plain,
Full of protest, of oath and big compare,
[To DUKE SENIOR]  To you I give myself, for I am yours.
beseech your worship to correct yourself, for the
Certainly
yet his brother is reputed one of the best that is:
Not so, neither: but if I had wit enough to get out
your whores, sir, being members of my occupation,
I'll strive, with troubled thoughts, to take a nap,
Good boy, in Virgo's lap; give it Pallas.
Enter two Pages
What's past and what's to come she can descry.
So long as heaven and nature lengthens it.
As long as you or I yet he must die.
There to be crowned England's royal king:
These words hereafter thy tormentors be!
And by the benefit of his wished light,
Good day, sir.
This infant warrior, in his enterprises
Beauteous and swift, the minions of their race,
To put a strange face on his own perfection.
Shall weigh thee to the beam; that wilt not know,
Exeunt
Some god direct my judgment! Let me see;
Here's neither bush nor shrub, to bear off
Why, sir, her name's a word; and to dally with that
What's your will, father
How angerly I taught my brow to frown,
For it an archbishop.
And the ear-deafening voice o' the oracle,
ready. By my troth, I am exceeding ill: heigh-ho!
That doth renew swifter than blood decays!
And by me, had not our hap been bad.
Which by no means we may extenuate--
Against thy seat: both young and old rebel,
though there were no further danger known but the
that, when gentlemen are tired, gives them a sob
Grace of the duke, revenges to your heart,
Now will he interpret to her.
The juice of it on sleeping eye-lids laid
And told him of those triumphs held at Oxford.
You see how easily she may be surprised:
Or else come after: I'll away before.
Thou hadst an Edward, till a Richard kill'd him;
This is not generous, not gentle, not humble.
Enter BRAKENBURY
That proof is call'd impossibility.
Is it even so? begin you to grow upon me? I will
Go charge my goblins that they grind their joints
Lay by these:--
mason, the shipwright, or the carpenter?
A just and open trial. While she lives
I did.
And Cassio following him with determined sword,
On which heaven rides, knit all the Greekish ears
Look to the drawbridge there!
And if he stand on hostage for his safety,
And when the fit was on him, I did mark
Thus would I wear them out.
Enter Scout
Is to himself, take thought and die for Caesar:
Cannot deny; he hath done no Briton harm,
For ever, and for ever, farewell, Cassius!
This doom, my lord, if I may judge:
none of Pygmalion's images, newly made woman, to be
I love and hate her: for she's fair and royal,
Nay, that's certain; we have the exhibition to examine.
And I, poor monster, fond as much on him;
Her father's liking: which to bring to pass,
But all hoods make not monks.
'On pain of losing her tongue.' Who devised this penalty?
Clean from the purpose of the things themselves.
Save in aspect, hath all offence seal'd up;
Enter KING HENRY VI, QUEEN MARGARET, GLOUCESTER, CARDINAL, and SUFFOLK, with Falconers halloing
Here was a royal fellowship of death!
Such is the simplicity of man to hearken after the flesh.
Be York the next that must be bankrupt so!
The more pity, that fools may not speak wisely what
No doubt, no doubt; O, 'tis a parlous boy;
Whiles Warwick tells his title, smooths the wrong,
Before you all, appeal unto the pope,
Into a thousand that I have forgotten.
Let vultures gripe thy guts! for gourd and fullam holds,
Good now, some excellent fortune! Let me be married
Mock mothers from their sons, mock castles down;
As I will meet thee, if thou stir abroad--
Is it more sin to wish me thus forsworn,
Encore qu'il est contre son jurement de pardonner
For our best act. If we shall stand still,
I hear him coming: let's withdraw, my lord.
And promise them success and victory.
He wants the natural touch: for the poor wren,
He consul!
SCENE IV. The Queen's closet.
So well as Brutus living; but will follow
And none so poor to do him reverence.
For he conjured her she should ever keep it,
It is our part and promise to the Athenians
Who was by good appliance recovered.
If I in thought felt not her very sorrow!
If then the king your father will restore
And therefore level not to hit their lives.
step on. They say he has been fencer to the Sophy.
So, so; come, give me that: this way; well said.
That jack-an-apes with scarfs: why is he melancholy?
Exit
he that hath learned no wit by nature nor art may
What says the married woman? You may go:
The serpent that did sting thy father's life
I cannot hope
And pay them when you part.
And therefore yet relent, and save my life.
is come after it indifferent well; for there is
As to advance this jewel; accept it and wear it,
Lord regent, I do greet your excellence
To take upon you what is yours: you may
As for that heinous tiger, Tamora,
Well, let us to the king: there is that in this
Knocks
Till you have done your business in the city:
Yourself, renowned prince, then stood as fair
May't please your majesty to give us leave
And sweating until my very roof was dry
What, wilt thou wash him from his grave with tears?
Coriolanus banished!
Than our earth's wonder, more than earth divine.
Prithee, read i' thy right wits.
Go fetch them hither: if they deny to come.
And ask him why, that hour of fairy revel,
for if the devil be within and that temptation
Dead Shepherd, now I find thy saw of might,
Exeunt Murderers
shalt hear; 'tis in three parts.
That need must needs infer this principle,
Dost thou hear?
Of Pericles, to rage the city turn,
Lo, here in one line is his name twice writ,
for true, that he's so full of gold?
Why should it thrive and turn to nutriment,
'For that it saved me, keep it; in like necessity--
O Caesar!--
Or as thy father and his father did,
and the case to be lamented: this grief is crowned
Is it possible disdain should die while she hath
Enter Servant
Fie, sir, fie!
Thus much of this will make black white, foul fair,
Gallop apace, you fiery-footed steeds,
woo me: at which time would I, being but a moonish
You promised me to wed.
And have with holy bell been knoll'd to church
SCENE II. Sandal Castle.
to your husband, to give him such cause of suspicion!
Exeunt
Cavaleiro-justice, I say!
commendations go with pity; they are virtues and
[Reads]
limed her; but it is Jove's doing, and Jove make me
Well, do you so; let not me take him, then;
Virtue is no horn-maker; and my Rosalind is virtuous.
[Aside]  And yet I must.--Bless thy sweet eyes, they bleed.
With this slave's offal: bloody, bawdy villain!
Thus die I, thus, thus, thus.
And given my treasures and my rights of thee
He used as creatures of another place
My conscience first received a tenderness,
The prince my brother hath outgrown me far.
Into the staggers and the careless lapse
Which here, in this most desolate isle, else falls
to me; for indeed three such antics do not amount to
No more of that: he did so.
This is too heavy, let me see another.
Exeunt
Or Edward's soft and pitiful, like mine
And never stays to greet him; 'Ay' quoth Jaques,
Call him to present trial: if he may
As violently as hasty powder fired
And tempt the rheumy and unpurged air
The beauty of this kingdom, I'll assure you.
SCENE V. The Tower of London.
Rests by you only to be qualified:
His glittering arms he will commend to rust,
own defence?
Ere he should thus have ventured.
Money buys lands, and wives are sold by fate.
Believe me, on mine honour,
Yea, marry, let them come before me. What is your
Well, well;
Mount thou my horse, and hide thy spurs in him,
But left that hateful office unto thee:
My very character,--I'ld turn it all
and have given ourselves without scruple to hell,
Which is my heaven to have. Come, thou
Prithee, get thee in: would thou hadst ne'er been
The thane of Cawdor, began a dismal conflict;
To hear my nothings monster'd.
But out of question 'tis Maria's hand.
How he upbraids Iago, that he made him
Bright star of Venus, fall'n down on the earth,
Yes, I do know him well, and common speech
Who twice a-day their wither'd hands hold up
it is almost day.
of work; which not to have been blest withal would
Within these two months, that's a month before
It may not be; good madam, pardon me.
The raven rook'd her on the chimney's top,
What trumpet's that?
devil guide his cudgel afterwards!
Olivia's father took much delight in. He is about the house.
Then thou, fair sun, which on my earth dost shine,
Good time of day unto your royal grace!
She is hard by with twenty thousand men;
And how shall we continue Claudio,
Sir, Octavius is already come to Rome.
the duchess and the ladies, that they would shriek;
Titania, music call; and strike more dead
This realm dismantled was
like an old lecher's heart; a small spark, all the
After, Aumerle! mount thee upon his horse;
[Reads]  ''Gamut' I am, the ground of all accord,
O, me!
ignorant of what greatness is promised thee. Lay it
He should the bearers put to sudden death,
Bereft of ships and men, cast on this shore.
It is the Count Rousillon, my good lord,
Farewell, captain.
That wrings mine eyes to't.
Hume must make merry with the duchess' gold;
Up, princes! and, with spirit of honour edged
A goodly city is this Antium. City,
Page, which is pretty virginity.
God safely quit her of her burthen, and
Repent what you have spoke.
This morning are they fled away and gone;
Well, I will thither.
You and you are sure together,
I have my wish.
And thou, Hortensio, with thy loving widow,
Such is his noble purpose; and believe 't,
Alack, poor soul! thou hast need of more rags to lay
What, cardinal, is your priesthood grown peremptory?
Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee,
I'll run from thee and hide me in the brakes,
I wonder at it.
Sorrow would be a rarity most beloved,
As great in admiration as herself;
Might yet enkindle you unto the crown,
Come, thou shalt bear a letter to him straight.
ye pinch me like a pasty, I can say no more.
Is as a meeting of the petty gods,
The close earth wombs or the profound sea hides
His liberty is full of threats to all;
O God, I have an ill-divining soul!
Receive him,
But though we think it so, it is no matter:
Is it as he will? well then, France shall rue.
And soothest up greatness. What a fool art thou,
Here comes your father; tell him so yourself,
Strike up, pipers.
Mine issue of your blood upon your daughter
pawn till it be brought you.
To move the heavens to smile upon my state,
Take not, good cousin, further than you should.
A little to disquantity your train;
In reason he should never come to heaven
Ay, if Messala will prefer me to you.
Or stomach-qualm'd at land, a dram of this
silks betray thy poor heart to woman: keep thy foot
Let all my land be sold.
That work for bread upon Athenian stalls,
For virtue and true beauty of the soul,
Pray you, mark.
Limps after in base imitation.
Upon my head?
Hang thyself!
a woodcock too?
Exeunt
De elbow, madame.
Thy sheep be in the corn;
Or else you like not of my company.
Hark, they roar!
Said, 'twas the fear, indeed; and that he doubted
good Christians ought to have.
No: let my father seek another heir.
To break within the bloody house of life,
'Tis thought the old man and his sons were angels.
that often madness hits on, which reason and sanity
As well as we! ay, and better too; we offend worse.
The stars, I see, will kiss the valleys first:
The chief cause concerns his grace of Canterbury.
And so repose, sweet gold, for their unrest
So much for that. Now for our Irish wars:
This pausingly ensued: neither the king nor's heirs,
Dead, for my life!
SCENE V. A room in the Garter Inn.
He thinks too much: such men are dangerous.
Not that I pity Henry's misery,
Indeed, Sir John, you said so.
Time and the hour runs through the roughest day.
Did graciously plead for his funerals:
With this thy fair and outward character.
Let the superfluous and lust-dieted man,
Shall I be flouted thus by dunghill grooms?
I fear it is: and yet, methinks, it should not,
Why, Suffolk, England knows thine insolence.
Speak softly; yonder, as I think, he walks.
Their kingdom's loss, my woful banishment,
These two Antipholuses, these two so like,
Stand.
A chafed lion by the mortal paw,
And give you entrance: but without this match,
hid me in these woods and durst not peep out, for
Sir Nathaniel, haud credo.
That our devices still are overthrown;
And, friends, disperse yourselves; but all remember
which will give language to you, cat: open your
By heaven, I'll know thy thoughts.
Leave me awhile.
That's as much as to say, Can she so?
Yes, faith, will I, Fridays and Saturdays and all.
ANTIPHOLUS
That he dares ne'er come back to challenge you;
And linger not our sure destructions on!
Until his very downfall in the sea:
And wouldst do so, I think, should we encounter
great traveller, and wild Half-can that stabbed
Thy life hath had some smatch of honour in it:
From most true wretchedness: so thou, Posthumus,
scorn her own image, and the very age and body of
Mopsa must be your mistress: marry, garlic,
Than that which withering on the virgin thorn
The tedious minutes I with her have spent.
Thy words move rage and not remorse in me:
cloak, when honester men than thou go in their hose
Against renowned Douglas! whose high deeds,
wilt tutor me from quarrelling!
For Michael Cassio,
many books together: he is furnished with my
I take my leave of you.
And bid her come hither.
Corrects the ill aspects of planets evil,
Or who hath brought the fatal engine in
'Tween snow and fire, as treason and my love.
courtier's hands are perfumed with civet.
What's this? mutton?
But, hark! what new alarum is this same?
From thine own sister's shame? What should I think?
Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast? woo't tear thyself?
Than this Lavinia, Bassianus' love.
an ell and three quarters, will not measure her from
Takes hold of the hand of the Daughter of ANTIOCHUS
Why not a mother? When I said 'a mother,'
intelligence of this whore: the parrot will not
Enter CAPULET, LADY  CAPULET, Nurse, and two Servingmen
But I, that am not shaped for sportive tricks,
But for my sport and profit. I hate the Moor:
This ring, good sir, alas, it is a trifle!
The heir of Cymbeline and Britain, who
And it shall please me well: for mine own part,
Vaunt-couriers to oak-cleaving thunderbolts,
Whither the queen intends. Forward; away!
What fear is this which startles in our ears?
The thief doth fear each bush an officer.
Some thousands of these logs and pile them up,
to be proud of thy bondage. I have a desire to hold
The wood began to move.
Be not thyself; for how art thou a king
Well, sir, I will. Have you the chain about you?
Thunder and lightning. Exit Spirit
How now, young man! mean'st thou to fight to-day?
Ay, ay: you writ them, sir, at my request;
Remember March, the ides of March remember:
The which you promised I should possess.
You will the sooner, that I were away;
And what this fourteen years no razor touch'd,
Lives not alone immured in the brain;
And with her personage, her tall personage,
the spirits o' the dead
Kill me to-morrow: let me live to-night!
Ah, my good Lord of Winchester, I thank you;
For so this side of our known world esteem'd him--
Claudio must die to-morrow: let him be furnished
Enter two Officers, to lay cushions
That's enough.
It is, my lord.
If after every tempest come such calms,
To use his eyes for garden water-pots,
on brambles, all, forsooth, deifying the name of
Or one that, at a triumph having vow'd
Are you a comedian?
Why wither not the leaves the sap being gone?
No, I pray you;
I am sure, sweet Kate, this kindness merits thanks.
I think you have hit the mark: but is't not cruel
Remember whom you are to cope withal;
If worthier friends had not prevented me.
Worthy prince, I know't.
Your reason, mighty lord?
And what I want it boots not to complain.
Distract your army, which doth most consist
The mayor is here at hand: intend some fear;
Exeunt BAPTISTA, GREMIO, and attendants
To thy fair way!
What glory our Achilles shares from Hector,
I love the king your father, and yourself,
She was too fond of her most filthy bargain.
As it disanimates his enemies.
And leads the will to desperate undertakings
And I'll sing it.
That struts and frets his hour upon the stage
And why should we proclaim it in an hour before his
a-coming will speak their mind in some other sort.
From off our coast, twice beaten; and his shipping--
There, where we see the lights.
Will this content you, Kate?
Captain, I thee beseech to do me favours:
Spake you with him?
They found him dead and cast into the streets,
In my profession? Knighthoods and honours, borne
Nor met with fortune other than at feasts,
To them accordingly.
And let our hearts and eyes, like civil war,
What is your quarrel? how began it first?
Re-enter ACHILLES
Judas Maccabaeus; this swain, because of his great
One that, above all other strifes, contended
You here shall swear upon this sword of justice,
will not use them.
you: you are a good member of the commonwealth.
Lucilius' Servant	Flaminius! Sir, a word: pray, is my lord ready to
Yet will I woo for him, but yet so coldly
In her forehead; armed and reverted, making war
but in honest, civil, godly company, for this trick:
And yet the eighth appears, who bears a glass
Before my daughter told me--what might you,
At point to sink for food. But what is this?
To others' eyes; nor doth the eye itself,
Save when command to your dismission tends,
is two months on her way.
But heavenly Rosalind!
look you, be an ass and a fool and a prating
Without or grudge or grumblings: thou didst promise
That he shall render every glory up,
Even with his pestilent scythe.
Exeunt
Now follow, if thou darest, to try whose right,
Then will two at once woo one;
Four legs and two voices: a most delicate monster!
Or, shedding, breed a nursery of like evil,
We and our wives and children all will fight
From honourable sources.
Lucilius' Servant	Ay, but the days are wax'd shorter with him:
One raised in blood, and one in blood establish'd;
The usurper's cursed head: the time is free:
On serious business, craving quick dispatch,
Follow your spirit, and upon this charge
Sir, I praise the Lord for you; and so may my
I am sorry
His barbed steeds to stables, and his heart
not according to the disciplines of the war: the
And unregarded age in corners thrown:
Say that he thrive, as 'tis great like he will,
ANTIPHOLUS
She shall undo her credit with the Moor.
Where now his knowledge must prove ignorance.
you killed a sweet and innocent lady. For my Lord
To faithful service of your majesty.
Will't please your lordship drink a cup of sack?
Here comes Lorenzo: more of this hereafter.
This day of shame, oppression, perjury.
of fashion: richly suited, but unsuitable: just
I must uneasy make, lest too light winning
That I may back to Athens by daylight,
Great hurt and mischief; thereto witness may
My lord, the mind of Bolingbroke is changed:
That deep and dreadful organ-pipe, pronounced
'Gainst me, that I cannot take peace with:
I have forgiven and forgotten all;
I will have that subject newly writ o'er, that I may
To eat with us to-night, the charge and thanking
Have I once lived to see two honest men?
I was not born to die on Brutus' sword.
He loses hearts: Lepidus flatters both,
As hell's from heaven! If it were now to die,
Exit
betray nice wenches, that would be betrayed without
Truly, sir, I think you'll hardly win her.
Come, one for me.
Do I stand there? I never had a brother;
I was of late as petty to his ends
sure will hang upon my tongue like a new-married
I answer is most false. The duke by law
Exit with CRESSIDA
How close 'tis caulk'd and bitumed!
What is your will, sir, that you send for me?
For often have you writ to her, and she, in modesty,
More fertile-fresh than all the field to see;
But as this title honours me and mine,
May make it probable need.
I say again, hath made a gross revolt;
Amen, amen, to that fair prayer, say I;
Exit ALEXAS
Never.
Of thee, my dear one, thee, my daughter, who
We had need pray,
Flourish. Exeunt
Love and languish for his sake:
I thank you, honest lord. Remember me
And hear me speak a word.
Here comes his mother.
Both by myself and many other friends:
[Above]  Titinius is enclosed round about
played the Jack with us.
The heavens themselves blaze forth the death of princes.
Stop close their mouths, let them not speak a word.
Commend me to Lord William: tell him, Catesby,
The primogenitive and due of birth,
As may be in the world: his youth in flood,
Or then, or then; with such, or such; and, as you say,
I would be trebled twenty times myself;
For a charm of powerful trouble,
That in the sty of this most bloody boar
bears that office, to signify their pleasures.
But we saw him dead.
[Aside]  Now Winchester will not submit, I trow,
This, or else nothing, will inherit her.
Yet, coming from him, that great medicine hath
An idle lord. I swear.
Why, for that too.
I will be with you.
Since, of ourselves, ourselves are choleric,
Our scene is alter'd from a serious thing,
That Margaret may be England's royal queen.
Thomas Cromwell;
I beseech your majesty, make up,
But that he was bound by a solemn oath?
England and Ireland, Anjou, Touraine, Maine,
And either not attempt to choose at all
With four or five most vile and ragged foils,
daughter's flight.
To bar my master's heirs in true descent,
And say 'Alas, it was a piteous deed!'
Enter Priest,  and c. in procession; the Corpse of  OPHELIA, LAERTES and Mourners following; KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, their trains,  and c
And you did swear that oath at Doncaster,
You must be gone from hence immediately.
The sweet'st, dear'st creature's dead,
times upon far poorer moment: I do think there is
Two Talbots, winged through the lither sky,
Who art so lovely fair and smell'st so sweet
[Coming forward]  This can be no trick: the
preeches. Go your ways, and play; go.
Is Caesar's homager: else so thy cheek pays shame
Whose circling shadows kings have sought to sleep in,
As silver-voiced; her eyes as jewel-like
Whate'er I forge to feed his brain-sick fits,
Killing myself, to die upon a kiss.
Have slime upon them, such as the aspic leaves
Or not remember what I must be now!
If he fall in, good night! or sink or swim:
No more, I say! For that I have not wash'd
wine: but if thou be'st not an ass, I am a youth
In love whereof, half Hector stays at home;
Well, sir.
putting-on; methinks strangely, for he hath not used it before.
I'll kiss each several paper for amends.
So your desires are yours.
Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse;
'Come, sweet Audrey:
you may speak as small as you will.
My sisterly remorse confutes mine honour,
Be sprightly, for you fall 'mongst friends.
Do, if it will not stand.
To have the courtesy your cradle promised,
Shall tithe or toll in our dominions;
Some other mistress hath thy sweet aspects;
And to the field goes he; where every flower
Didst thou not hear somebody?
Eight hundred five. Besides, their writers say,
SCENE II. The same. A  street near the gate.
What, urge you your petitions in the street?
Me?
Ay, Apemantus.
Would draw heaven down, and all the gods, to hearken:
Or, like obedient subjects, follow him
Patient Octavia plough thy visage up
A business that this night may execute,
To whose flint bosom my condemned lord
Upon them! victory sits on our helms.
So proudly as if he disdain'd the ground.
The misplaced John should entertain an hour,
Exit Citizen
And make a battery through his deafen'd parts,
Let me not understand you, then; speak it in Welsh.
As breath into the wind. Would they had stay'd!
When this advice is free I give and honest,
Than my poor life must answer.
Sometime she driveth o'er a soldier's neck,
Lower! hark, again.
Interest of territory, cares of state,--
Joy absent, grief is present for that time.
His service and his counsel.
he that died o' Wednesday. Doth he feel it? no.
Who after me hath many a weary step
Within this hour bring me word 'tis done,
I saw his heart in 's face. Give me thy hand:
Give them diseases, leaving with thee their lust.
On safe-guard he  came to me; and did curse
Exit
My worthy Cawdor!
Upon your stubborn usage of the pope;
As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays:
I will have this: whose was it?
From false to false, among false maids in love,
Kneeling
Haste thee, for thy life.
For when would you, my lord, or you, or you,
Which almost burst to belch it in the sea.
Go, bear him in thine arms.
This shall I undertake; and 'tis a burden
He doth appear.
Aside to ARIEL
Then did the sun on dunghill shine.
Will apprehend you as his enemy.
Saint Lawrence Poultney, did of me demand
Let me be umpire in this doubtful strife.
Only to despite them, I will endeavour any thing.
It shall be stony. York not our old men spares;
What says Achilles? would he aught with us?
I loved you ever: but it is no matter;
Most noble lord,
of the sight of Orlando: I'll go find a shadow and
Your need to sustain;
Three-piled hyperboles, spruce affectation,
To whom it must be done.
Ned, I give thee this pennyworth of sugar, clapped
When I, thy three-hours wife, have mangled it?
If thou wilt lend this money, lend it not
Than pity note how much. Therefore, be gone.
ANTIPHOLUS
Even what it please my lord, that shall become him.
last company: I am very glad to see you: even a
Of broached mischief to the unborn times?
With all my heart, good youth.
the fish, was when, at the relation of the queen's
Y-ravished the regions round,
Tucket within
'Tis but the shortening of my life one day:
The hearts of princes kiss obedience,
Under your pardon. You must note beside,
His word might bear my wealth at any time.
And Nestor play at push-pin with the boys,
Commend me to my kind lord: O, farewell!
To walk unbraced and suck up the humours
Thus hath the candle singed the moth.
Which then will speak, that you must
wears the marble.
a kinsman not past three quarters of a mile hence,
Amen.
die; but that, my offences being many, I would
Cry 'God for Harry, England, and Saint George!'
Cunning.
Anon, anon, sir. Look down into the Pomgarnet, Ralph.
Sorry I am my noble cousin should
For they are certain and unfallible.
Call Claudius and some other of my men:
I know him, madam: at a marriage-feast,
And you, good sir! Pray, have you not a daughter
Leave off delays, and let us raise the siege.
Pray heaven it be not full of knight again.
Exeunt
the hangman boys in the market-place: and then I
Gaoler, look to him.
man were porter of hell-gate, he should have
To bed, to bed! there's knocking at the gate:
He is not here, so please your lordship that should sing it.
Beheld them, when they lighted, how they clung
Let it stamp wrinkles in her brow of youth;
Where should she be? How oddly thou repliest!
But he as he, the heavier for a whore.
little intoxicates in his prains, did, in his ales and
of his council.
Upon this naughty earth? Go to, go to;
of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy: he hath
You spurn me hence, and he will spurn me hither:
The king is in high rage.
Why, 'tis a boisterous and a cruel style.
A king's son! If I do not beat thee out of thy
Dost thou speak seriously, Servilius?
To the unsatisfied.
The first time ever Caesar put it on;
The taming-school! what, is there such a place?
And speed must answer it.
Drawn with a team of little atomies
But for thee, fellow; fellow, thy words are madness:
It is the stars,
with life that I will sue to be rid of it.
What, like a corse?
But by contempt of nature.
We'll give them present audience. Go, and bring them.
Commend me to my brother: soon at night
Monsieur the challenger, the princesses call for you.
Drawing his sword
If in the world he live, we'll seek him out;
grant? and will you persever to enjoy her?
going to my wife, and Falstaff's boy with her. A
God speed fair Helena! whither away?
May move your hearts to pity if you mark him.
The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.
With twenty thousand soul-confirming oaths.
this a place to roar in? Fetch me a dozen crab-tree
Good duke, receive thy daughter
And so farewell. Katharina, you may stay;
Enter EDGAR
I say, amen.
That's all I reck.
Sing, and dance it trippingly.
Why, then, O brawling love! O loving hate!
The wretched animal heaved forth such groans
Or shall we sparingly show you far off
leg, it was formed under the star of a galliard.
of profession: one would think it were Mistress
And found him pight to do it, with curst speech
That ever was survey'd by English eye,
You'll ask me, why I rather choose to have
The winged vengeance overtake such children.
And for thy life let justice be accused.
Self-mettle tires him. Not a man in England
that I may repent.
constantly, but a time-pleaser; an affectioned ass,
More than pertains to feats of broil and battle,
God's arm strike with us! 'tis a fearful odds.
Weeping and wailing over Tybalt's corse:
Of mine own eyes.
Of Paphlagonia; the Thracian king, Adallas;
My father, being the Earl of Warwick's man,
That tend upon my father?
Remote from all the pleasures of the world;
Enter FENTON and ANNE PAGE
SONG.
Winner and loser?
Whose end is purposed by the mighty gods?
To o'erthrow law and in one self-born hour
Ready to starve and dare not touch his own:
Would more have strengthen'd this our commonwealth
And what they undid did.
There doth my father lie; and there, this night,
Tell him, cavaleiro-justice; tell him, bully-rook.
To throw away the dearest thing he owed,
Come, Kate, thou art perfect in lying down: come,
You have among you many a purchased slave,
Put not another sin upon my head,
Let it be so; thy truth, then, be thy dower:
Makes mouths at the invisible event,
your own fault and not mine: for had you been as I
And now you should be as your mother was
Well may we fight for her whom, we know well,
And all the gods go with you! upon your sword
That makes me reasonless to reason thus?
Am I but three inches? why, thy horn is a foot; and
By Christ's dear blood shed for our grievous sins,
France, hast thou yet more blood to cast away?
A balance more replete.
I crave your highness' pardon.
Therefore do nimble-pinion'd doves draw love,
quart pot to drink in; and now the word 'sallet'
I found no man but he was true to me.
Why grow the branches now the root is wither'd?
In this fine age were not thought flattery,
warmth is there in your affection towards any of
He meant he did me none; the more my spite.
This is true;
Is else devoted, I am but a shadow;
Now Antony must leave her utterly.
And with his troops doth march amain to London;
Did broach this business to your highness; or
As like Hermione as is her picture,
Late footed in the kingdom?
To hang clogs on them. I have done, my lord.
Thus got the house of Lancaster the crown.
Noble lady,
But, sir, sir,
Which with my scimitar I'll cool to-morrow.
He did; myself did hear it.
May, if they think it well, let fall a tear;
their wit. I will bid thee draw, as we do the
Must help you more than you are hurt by me.
So bold Leander would adventure it.
hats and most courteous feathers, which bow the head
against a post when he was drunk. They will steal
Of the death practised duke: for him 'tis well
Have by my hands of life bereaved him.
Hark you, my friend; you said you could not beg.
Nay, conceive me, conceive me, sweet coz: what I do
Pernicious protector, dangerous peer,
Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd,
though I had never so good means, as desire, to make
Bears a command in't; though thy tackle's torn.
and untempering effect of my visage. Now, beshrew
Smile you my speeches, as I were a fool?
Being at Greenwich,
you may believe: censure me in your wisdom, and
He, being in the vaward, placed behind
For I dare so far free him--made him fear'd,
Which, howsoever rude exteriorly,
were, durst not, look you, sir, show themselves, as
From Dis's waggon! daffodils,
Speak on; but be not over-tedious.
I rather of his absence make this use:
We have received your letters full of love;
write with a goose-pen, no matter: about it.
In the most terrible and nimble stroke
And is become the bellows and the fan
foolish woman your wife! she gave it him, and he
Banish'd the new-made bridegroom from the city,
He gives you, upon his knees, a thousand thanks; and
Dexterity so obeying appetite
Are you so desperate grown, to threat your friends?
And do't the speedier, that you may direct me
Enter QUEEN GERTRUDE, HORATIO, and a Gentleman
Now can I break my fast, dine, sup and sleep,
Come to the Capitol.
and a man that I love and honour with my soul, and my
Here is a rural fellow
I overheard him and his practises.
But undergo this flight, make for Sicilia,
Turns what he list. The king will know him one day.
Rich men look sad and ruffians dance and leap,
I can be patient; I can stay with Regan,
With those that have offended: like a shepherd,
As well a woman with an eunuch play'd
No, madam.
All for my master's sake, Lucentio.
With cheese and garlic in a windmill, far,
Of thousand friends; then in a moment, see
How does he love me?
Beg pardon of the prince, and call thee back
And every jest but a word.
Enter GLOUCESTER, HASTINGS, and STANLEY
The burning torch in yonder turret stands.
Wise! why, no question but he was.
Well, and say that Marcius
Makes a pass through the arras
What is your will?
virginity murders itself and should be buried in
That sets us all at odds: I'll not endure it:
How now, my lords!
No quarrel, but a slight contention.
Ready.
Wilt dine with me, Apemantus?
Even for that I thank you:
That I have been disloyal to thy bed,
Then is the world one.
Or add a royal number to the dead,
way of waste, attempt us again.
To this effect, Achilles, have I moved you:
Even as your horse bears your praises; who would
It is ashamed to bear me! Friends, come hither:
Only for this, I pray you, pardon me.
A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
Whoe'er he be that in this foul proceeding
No more a Briton, I have resumed again
Trumpets; hautboys; drums beat; all together
To the young man send humble treaties, dodge
Reads
A neat-herd's daughter, and my Leonatus
Knighted in field, slain manfully in arms,
Come, come; let's see him out at gates; come.
If it Please your honour, I am the poor duke's
A liberal hand: the hearts of old gave hands;
Ay, madam, knowingly.
O, attend, my daughter:
If I were much in love with vanity!
Behold, sir king,
Who worship dirty gods.
That with some mixtures powerful o'er the blood,
I would it were hell-pains for thy sake, and my poor
A power I have, but of what strength and nature
But by his mother was perforce withheld.
My lord is fall'n into an epilepsy:
And merrily hent the stile-a:
Then is your cause gone too. The duke's unjust,
What you have spoke, it may be so perchance.
Where I intend holy confession.
To fight in quarrel of the house of Lancaster.
Brought hither to Pentapolis,
Midnight, assist our moan;
Why? For filling a bottle with a tundish. I would
fifteen i' the litter: and you may know by my size
the mountain of mad flesh that claims marriage of
Osric, who brings back to him that you attend him in
Or shut me nightly in a charnel-house,
Why, here is the note of the fashion to testify
For the best turn i' the bed.
The fields are fragrant and the woods are green:
The orchard walls are high and hard to climb,
Exit FALSTAFF
What might you think? No, I went round to work,
Injurious Margaret!
Since I am charged in honour and by him
elder than this, who yet is no dearer in my account:
He bears the sentence well that nothing bears
In your behalf still will I wear the same.
he come; for, sure, the man is tainted in's wits.
My lord,
Denied me to come in--return, and force
DON
To see your wives dishonour'd to your noses,--
To the rock, to the rock with him!
To say the truth, true and not true.
Nurse, give it me; my sword shall soon dispatch it.
My heart into my mouth: I love your majesty
When Caesar says 'do this,' it is perform'd.
Edward, what satisfaction canst thou make
white wench's black eye; shot through the ear with a
And thankfully rest debtor for the first.
Upon this business my appearance make
She is desperate here; a peevish self-wind harlotry,
Or sleep I now and think I hear all this?
See where she comes and brings your froward wives
he'll be made an example.
Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole
Has said enough.
Now, Somerset, where is your argument?
O traitors and bawds, how earnestly are you set
I am not an impostor that proclaim
Is lechery so look'd after?
A plague upon the tyrant that I serve!
A victor shall be known? will you the knights
and on. By this light, thou shalt be my lieutenant,
For it is thine.
But by my coming I have made you happy.
Enter SILVIA, attended
Had she a tongue to speak, now would she say
Thy other banish'd son, with this dear sight
And say I spoke with you.
Nor aught so good but strain'd from that fair use
A most virtuous princess.
This is the hag, when maids lie on their backs,
Sometime a horse I'll be, sometime a hound,
Why, how now, Kate! I hope thou art not mad:
Enter Attendants
And their most reverend heads dash'd to the walls,
Awakes my conscience to confess all this.
So high above his limits swells the rage
We have had pelting wars, since you refused
No, let me not.
Sir, we have a chest beneath the hatches, caulked
Let me be ignorant, and in nothing good,
he! why, he hath a horse better than the
Where I left reading? Here it is, I think.
Ay, some mad message from his mad grandfather.
carp as you may; for he looks like a poor, decayed,
With the Moor, say'st thou? Who would be a father!
Root of hemlock digg'd i' the dark,
villain! Somebody call my wife. Youth in a basket!
Let it be a quarrel between us, if you live.
That should applaud again.--Pull't off, I say.--
At any time 'fore noon.
Fie, fie on all tired jades, on all mad masters, and
A letter, that she loves the knight of Tyre!
When you and he came back from Ravenspurgh.
so.'
challenge this glove, I have sworn to take him a box
one sorel.
Were in his pride or sharpness; if they were,
if thou account'st it shame. lay it on me;
I shall be pinch'd to death.
Be thou my witness that against my will,
Ay, with such gifts that heaven shall share with you.
Pays interest for 't; his land's put to their books.
Nor mark prodigious, such as are
Upon whose age we void it up again,
To say 'not guilty:' mine integrity
My too much changed son. Go, some of you,
Where now his son's like a glow-worm in the night,
I threw her overboard with these very arms.
Your scruple to the voice of Christendom:
Could my good brother suffer you to do it?
I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was
As amply and unnecessarily
of company. I think, if your husbands were dead,
Lucius, save the child,
and a cold capon's leg?
Which must be even as swiftly follow'd as
Than be so
stand still; it is shame, by my hand: and there is
yourself; for what is yours to bestow is not yours
Outworths a noble's blood.
Are near to Warwick by blood and by alliance:
Beggars, that come unto my father's door,
A fox, when one has caught her,
Or else you use not. You look pale and gaze
Nor to betray you any way to sorrow,
From France to England. Never such a power
It must be thought on. If it pass against us,
Exeunt
Which, being suffer'd, rivers cannot quench.
You.
You have done our pleasures much grace, fair ladies,
O Jesu, this is excellent sport, i' faith!
As himself pleased; and they were ratified
Look, York: I stain'd this napkin with the blood
To the Fool
Prince Troilus, I have loved you night and day
Ye turn me into nothing: woe upon ye
That might have known my place: I see no sense for't,
Toad, that under cold stone
Making them women of good carriage:
With your fine fancies quaintly eche:
The cuckold and the cuckold-maker are at it. Now,
Therefore hear you, mistress; either frame
Your mystery, your mystery: nay, dispatch.
O, this is the poison of deep grief; it springs
A largess universal like the sun
Is left to tyrannize upon my breast;
And art thou changed? pronounce this sentence then,
Take in that kingdom, and enfranchise that;
Of Edward's heirs the murderer shall be.
Heavens, what a man is there! a very horse,
Have done! for shame, if not for charity.
From high to low throughout, that whoso please
Tell me their words as near as thou canst guess them.
Therefore let our proportions for these wars
To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
The unstooping firmness of my upright soul:
With thy confederates in this weighty cause.
To Northumberland
He dies that touches any of this fruit
My twelve months are expired, and Tyrus stands
tongue in's arms. I will put on his presence: let
Pardon me, sir, your bad entertainment.
I found it in his closet, 'tis his will:
Peter!
Travelling some journey, to repose him here.
I follow'd fast, but faster he did fly;
Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love
Lord Longaville is one.
Teach me, thy tempted subject, to excuse it!
about your neck, like an usurer's chain? or under
Past hope, and in despair; that way, past grace.
To CATESBY
Hate me! wherefore? O me! what news, my love!
For in this sin he is as deep as I.
Thorough my rust! and how his pity
Slept in his face and render'd such aspect
Besides, old Gremio is hearkening still;
You look but on a stool.
That floated with thee on the fatal raft?
For did I but suspect a fearful man
These flies are couch'd.
provoker of three things.
Into the purse of rich prosperity
Go put it to the haste.
Ay, here they be that dare and will disturb thee:
That it engluts and swallows other sorrows
To win thy after-love I pardon thee.
Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
I see them lording it in London streets,
Or like a gallant horse fall'n in first rank,
I especially think, under Mars.
Boldness comes to me now, and brings me heart.
Disgorges such a tempest forth,
Yes, just.
And one whom much I honour.
O, pray, pray, pray! Manka revania dulche.
where I erected it.
Well, sir, the poor distressed Lear's i' the town;
You love my son; invention is ashamed,
'Tis known to you he is mine enemy,
Exit LUCIUS
Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats
Descends
The goats ran from the mountains, and the herds
More truly now may this be verified;
In motion of no less celerity
not here thy gait.'
To Rome of our success. You, Titus Lartius,
And what a terror he had been to France.
And, sowing the kernels of it in the sea, bring
E'en so.
To their lord's murder: roasted in wrath and fire,
No more, but e'en a woman, and commanded
I rather will suspect the sun with cold
From France to England, there to live in peace.
We'll fall to it with our teeth.
His love, too long ago! I am old, my lords,
That rage in savage sensuality.
Which way to be prevented, if to be;
Exit
And Earl of Richmond; and this rich fair town
How now! what noise is that?
born under Saturn, goest about to apply a moral
Shall be brought drunken forth, and I shall see
With arms encumber'd thus, or this headshake,
Hie, good Sir Michael; bear this sealed brief
Believe things certain. Welcome, my friends all!
In gross rebellion and detested treason:
My lord?
therefore blessed? No: as a walled town is more
As a friend or an enemy?
Aside
discords: here's my fiddlestick; here's that shall
How now, Dame Partlet the hen! have you inquired
what I am willing to keep in; therefore it charges
I departed not and left him there.
The rest I'd give to be to you translated.
And most opportune to our need I have
Why should I write this down, that's riveted,
Enter CATESBY
From the east to western Ind,
And when please you to say so?
All night for lesser cause, and ne'er been sick.
Arm, gentlemen; to arms! for I have thrown
It is his five senses: fie, what the ignorance is!
Is it possible that any villany should be so dear?
Saw I men scour so on their way: I eyed them
A heavy reckoning for you, sir. But the comfort is,
Alas, I took great pains to study it, and 'tis poetical.
Than was his will to get me, as I think.
An affable and courteous gentleman:
Put rancours in the vessel of my peace
O'er lawyers' fingers, who straight dream on fees,
me yare; for truly, sir, for your kindness I owe you
He's of the colour of the nutmeg.
I do entreat you, not a man depart,
A chair brought in
[Sings]  'O, the twelfth day of December,'--
It pleased your majesty to turn your looks
The dibble in earth to set one slip of them;
This day is ours, as many more shall be.
Strike the proud cedars 'gainst the fiery sun;
As Angelo; even so may Angelo,
Seven, by these hilts, or I am a villain else.
of an ass, which is no great hurt.
And to your shadow will I make true love.
If you do fight against your country's foes,
thou not the air of the court in these enfoldings?
An echo with the clamour of thy drum,
In countenance somewhat doth resemble you.
My thoughts are minutes; and with sighs they jar
poor four of us.
Ay, an it like your good worship.
Allayments to their act, and by them gather
and happiness takes his leave.
I cannot wish the fault undone, the issue of it
Ay, grief, I fear me, both at first and last.
Good ancestors.
Faith, I can tell her age unto an hour.
This is much credit to you.
He is Cupid's grandfather and learns news of him.
Re-enter PANDARUS with CRESSIDA
To bear that load of title?
What wilt thou do? thou wilt not murder me?
They are at hand, and you shall quickly know.
This oily rascal is known as well as Paul's. Go,
My bosom's lord sits lightly in his throne;
confidence than her reputation: and, to bar your
He spoke, and learnedly, for life; but all
You had a bastard by Polixenes,
And live; if no, then thou art doom'd to die.
O, sir, pardon me!
Than you expect: unseal this letter soon;
Look on my forces with a gracious eye;
my daughter tell you how.
Though churlish thoughts themselves should be your judge,
Remnants of packthread and old cakes of roses,
Rude, in sooth; in good sooth, very rude.
That their hot blood may spin in English eyes,
To the good queen, possess'd him with a scruple
Tut, holy Joan was his defensive guard.
Like Muscovites or Russians, as I guess.
which his animals on his dunghills are as much
You've said, sir. We looked not for Mark Antony
So, proceed you.
worthiness.
Which are the children of an idle brain,
Be gone, I say; for, till you do return,
halfpenny loaves sold for a penny: the three-hooped
And each particular hair to stand on end,
Gall of goat, and slips of yew
SCENE III. The same. Before the palace.
You know my mind, I'll fight no more 'gainst Troy.
Herself's a bawd: let not the virgin's cheek
It may be so; but yet my inward soul
Has the old man e'er a son, sir, do you hear. an't
Never go home; here starve we out the night.
I thank you for that: if my lord get a boy of you,
their limbs whole and hack our English.
And if you cannot, best you stop your ears.
Do make myself a suitor to your daughter,
is damned.
Where, where, Messala, doth his body lie?
Enter a Sailor
Haste you again.
What is my ransom, master? let me know.
Do use to chant it: it is silly sooth,
What are they, I beseech your ladyship?
Nay, pursue him now, lest the device take air and taint.
What is that?
Kisses her
Oft have I heard his praises in pursuit,
Are you sure of that?
He knows I am no maid, and he'll swear to't;
And sleep in dull cold marble, where no mention
A silly answer and fitting well a sheep.
And not send back my messenger.
Sister, it is not a little I have to say of what
If I put any tricks upon 'em, sir, they shall be
Thou art as opposite to every good
I pray God he be not, I say.
he will make. Well I am sorry for your niece. Shall
the fool said, and so say I, and I the fool: well
I prophesied France will be lost ere long.
Cannot be truly follow'd. You shall mark
In change of him: let him be sent, great princes,
While he, renowned noble gentleman,
By her fine foot, straight leg and quivering thigh
And gorgeous as the sun at midsummer;
No.
Though now this grained face of mine be hid
the right!
BIRON tears the letter
And lose it, life and all, as Arthur did.
two helps, will so practise on Benedick that, in
To furnish us.
Had I this cheek
Tybalt, the kinsman of old Capulet,
Exit
Gentlemen,--
that I take for you is as easy as thanks. If I do
Than on a wretch whom nature is ashamed
not for his counsellor. You are not young, no more
Especially for those occasions
I will not flatter her.
Better at home, if 'would I might' were 'may.'
Shall drop their blood in approbation
Split'st the unwedgeable and gnarled oak
And comforts to your cause.
That would be son to great Antiochus.
I praise God for you.
Seek to know no more.
Go, tell the prince: run to the Capulets:
That thou art even natural in thine art.
Will you hear more?
grandmother: this proves that thou canst not read.
Than ever they were fair. This man so complete,
Whip me? No, no; let carman whip his jade:
My lady, to the manner of the days,
Those we profess, peace-makers, friends, and servants.
Either his gracious promise, which you might,
Lord Regent, and redoubted Burgundy,
Nor forward of revenge, though they much err'd:
And make our faces vizards to our hearts,
Neither disturbed with the effect of wine,
With what a majesty he bears himself,
Exit
world needs to fear no colours.
Whispers
And chiefly therefore I thank God and thee;
So are the prince and Claudio, who accused her
'Some achieve greatness,'--
By my faith, he is very swift and sententious.
I then moved you,
lie on my head.
Deck'd in thy rights, as thou art stall'd in mine!
Shall remain!
If son to Talbot, die at Talbot's foot.
The cloud-capp'd towers, the gorgeous palaces,
His trespass yet lives guilty in thy blood;
And those things do best please me
I here do give thee that with all my heart
Saunder Simpcox, an if it please you, master.
Bring your army; but, I think, you'll find
Though this island seem to be desert,--
Talk not of dying: I am out of fear
My heart can lend no succor to my head.
That all but we enjoy; for how can we,
Do you as I do in these dangerous days:
So foolish sorrow bids your stones farewell.
Softly, dear sir; good sir, softly. You ha' done me
Your office, sergeant; execute it.
Discourse is heavy, fasting; when we have supp'd,
When last the young Orlando parted from you
Or, if you do not, make the bridal bed
With ignominious words, though clerkly couch'd,
And be not jealous on me, gentle Brutus:
nature the wrongs are thou hast done him, I know
The leading of thine own revenges, take
Still him in praise: and, being present both
And bring thee cords made like a tackled stair;
First, rehearse your song by rote
Trail your steel pikes. Though in this city he
What is Dictynna?
The life o' the need: having found the backdoor open
They would not pity me, yet plead I must;
What's that?
A very mean meaning.
He's a soldier, and for one to say a soldier lies,
I am the daughter to King Pericles,
He shall spurn fate, scorn death, and bear
Ay, and the targets, to put off the shame:
Do lace the severing clouds in yonder east:
That hand, which, for thy love, did kill thy love,
It is not yet near day. Come, go with me;
Is yet the cover of a fairer mind
He humbly prays your speedy payment.
Will catch at us, like strumpets; and scald rhymers
'Tis very strange.
Or on Diana's altar to protest
Win straying souls with modesty again,
And fill me from the crown to the toe top-full
Belief of it oppresses me already.
Freely will I speak. Antiochus you fear,
Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
If not, he foams at mouth and by and by
You have received many wounds for your country.
Call not me slanderer; thou and thine usurp
He shall be satisfied; and, by my honour,
'Tis but her picture I have yet beheld,
And stop all sight-holes, every loop from whence
strength of my youth.
O, what authority and show of truth
With voices and applause of every sort,
let not my letter.
The barks of trees thou browsed'st; on the Alps
The very devils cannot plague them better.
But lately, very late: I loved him, friend;
As maids call medlars, when they laugh alone.
ways do lie open.
Where our desire is got without content:
Go hence, to have more talk of these sad things;
I very well agree with you in the hopes of him: it
Sir, in good sooth, in sincere verity,
Exit one with the Clerk
Will plead like angels, trumpet-tongued, against
Here am I left to underprop his land,
Always excepted my dear Claudio.
As if Time were in debt! how fondly dost thou reason!
DON
Music plays. Enter two or three Servants with a banquet
Whither I go, nor reason whereabout:
My princely father then had wars in France
elements of earth and water never appear in him, but
Come, Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.
ANTIPHOLUS
Our old and faithful friend, we are glad to see you.
Few words suffice; and therefore, if thou know
She may do more, sir, than denying that:
I am resolved for death or dignity.
The riches of the ship is come on shore!
affirm it.
Fast bind, fast find;
And all your northern castles yielded up,
To-morrow for the march are we addrest.
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus, DROMIO of Ephesus, ANGELO, and BALTHAZAR
The Moor is of a free and open nature,
So like to him that got it, if thou hast
'Faith, I perceive our masters may throw their caps
ballad against the hard hearts of maids: it was
We are like to have the overthrow again.
Lest he should take exceptions to my love;
They are, as all my other comforts, far hence
For I am sorry that with reverence
Since I received command to do this business
For live I will not, if my father die.
Brother of Gloucester, at Saint Alban's field
The council shall bear it; it is a riot.
Lay her i' the earth:
I say, my daughter is my flesh and blood.
That you will clear yourself from all suspect:
He is coming, sir, he is coming; I hear his straw rustle.
threshold till my lord return from the wars.
Shall we call back Northumberland, and send
And, on my lie, hath stol'n him home to bed.
Here comes your cousin.
Here comes the fool, i' faith.
Or made a toast for Neptune. Even so
thou not go to church in a galliard and come home in
Sound trumpets. Enter KING HENRY VI, QUEEN MARGARET, CARDINAL, SOMERSET, with Attendants
Which men full true shall find;
And hardly understood.
At my petition; I beseech you, rather
What patch is made our porter? My master stays in
For here he doth demand to have repaid
With all their powerful friends, are fled to him.
coursers for cousins and gennets for germans.
So will the queen, that living held him dear.
Nor you, as we are, loyal.
Teach me, dear creature, how to think and speak;
Methought this staff, mine office-badge in court,
In praise of Henry Percy: by my hopes,
A sly and constant knave,
I have no power upon you; hers you are.
The Hebrew will turn Christian: he grows kind.
confession, learn to begin thy health; but, whilst I
Where he himself was lost, Prospero his dukedom
Let us alone to guard Corioli:
you.
None but the king?
Sir, he is within; and I would I could do a good
Untainted, unexamined, free, at liberty
When man was wish'd to love his enemies!
The value of her own: 'twere a concealment
Strike up the drum towards Athens! Farewell, Timon:
Away with Slender and with him at Eton
To glean the broken ears after the man
Where she at least is banish'd from your eye,
that beggar Posthumus, thou canst not, in the
Exeunt
Arthur of Bretagne England's king and yours.
I have access my own love to prefer:
Enter a Messenger
contents, as in part I understand them, are to blame.
How he may soften at the sight o' the child:
O' horseback, ye cuckoo; but afoot he will not budge a foot.
It is Captain Macmorris, is it not?
Have left me naked to mine enemies.
My mistress loved thee, and her fortunes mingled
The count's gentleman, one Cesario: we took him for
I hold my duty, as I hold my soul,
This it is:
For Italy and Caesar. More, Domitius;
Ere such another Julius. Britain is
Weeps over them and wrings his hapless hands
Excels whatever yet you look'd upon
kiss your hand, and so I leave you. By this hand,
My Lord Sands, you are one will keep 'em waking;
but 'tis a Valentine.
Sure he is by this, or will be presently: but,
Thy beauty, that doth make me like thee well,
That am with Phoebus' amorous pinches black,
From Fife, great king;
Unto his son Lorenzo and his daughter.
When I was dry with rage and extreme toil,
We have convenient convoy. You must know
How now! is Somerset at liberty?
Well struck in years, fair, and not jealous;
Our friends at least.
Slight thing of Italy,
obstruction?
I know not what to say: but give me your hands;
Poor Clarence did forsake his father, Warwick;
'I shall beseech you'--that is question now;
With adorations, fertile tears,
Were it better, I should rush in thus.
Part of your cares you give me with your crown.
That now is lying in Marseilles' road.
Exeunt CLARENCE, BRAKENBURY, and Guard
Of smoky muskets? O you leaden messengers,
Must be supplyant: the words of your commission
Farewell! God knows when we shall meet again.
How does the queen?
To this unworthy husband of his wife;
My Lord of Surrey, why look you so sad?
There is enough written upon this earth
Between this chastised kingdom and myself,
We purpose her no shame: give her what comforts
Disguise the holy strength of their command,
Never to wash his face, nor cut his hairs:
Witness, you ever-burning lights above,
Out of my sight! thou dost infect my eyes.
into some monastery; but, by chance, nothing of what
My parks, my walks, my manors that I had.
Alas, I then have chid away my friend!
Something of moment then: I will go meet him:
Youth's a stuff will not endure.
So, your opinion is, Aufidius,
Are yours, my lord: I give them with this ring;
Enter Prologue
Take and give back affairs and their dispatch
Exeunt
Sir Thomas Grey, knight, of Northumberland,
Alarums. Enter MARK ANTONY and SCARUS wounded
Then, that in all you writ to Rome, or else
Exeunt General,  and c
All blest secrets,
The time is unagreeable to this business:
And, as I am a gentleman, I'll give thee
Sleep in their graves.
You, merchant, have you any thing to say?
Had been alive this hour,
A canvas-climber. 'Ha!' says one, 'wilt out?'
Conjectural marriages; making parties strong
Wears yet a precious jewel in his head;
You take pleasure then in the message?
A very good piece of work, I assure you, and a
Sir Valentine and servant, to you two thousand.
Of greatest port, have all persuaded with him;
fee'd every slight occasion that could but niggardly
That takes the reason prisoner?
chain or no.
The opposite of itself: she's good, being gone;
to. Lord Angelo dukes it well in his absence; he
Sir, by your patience,
To desperate ventures and assured destruction.
Lies all within. Deliver me the key:
Help to cover your master, boy. Call your men,
To this effect, sir; after what flourish your nature will.
Exeunt
Make not your thoughts your prisons: no, dear queen;
Cousin, cousin, how have you come so early by this lethargy?
Though doubts did ever sleep.
I blame you not;
Ay, there's the point, sir.
Our very loving sister, well be-met.
not strike the old woman.
Is pointing still, in cleansing them from tears.
Good Master Fenton, come not to my child.
La, la, la, la! 'nothing doubting,' says he? Alas,
As are those dulcet sounds in break of day
And I will put that business in your bosoms,
For they shall taste our comfort.
Let me beseech your grace not to do so:
Wherein thy counsel and consent is wanting.
We pray with heart and soul and all beside:
Who, without those means thou talkest of, didst thou
Yet you will be hanged for being so long absent; or,
Like one that stands upon a promontory,
Usurp the just proportion of my sorrow?
And God forbid a shallow scratch should drive
Do stand but in a forced affection;
Two hundred ducats.
So please your lordship, none.
word to the action; with this special o'erstep not
But now, I do respect thee as my soul.
Lewis and the Lady Bona send to him.
SCENE IV. The same. A room in the palace.
evasions have ears thus long. I have bobbed his
And, in thy reverence and thy chair-days, thus
Riddling confession finds but riddling shrift.
Exeunt OTHELLO, LODOVICO, and Attendants
SCENE VI. Rome. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's house.
KENT is set at liberty
And hell too strong for me to buckle with:
Resign'd the crown to Henry the Fourth,
Yes, it doth shine that night.
And for that cause I trained thee to my house.
Whom conscience and my kindred bids to right.
How to respect you; you are the lord of duty;
sleep, and they may have their throats about them at
He forfeits his own blood that spills another.
E'en that.
How now, Pisanio!
Nothing but fair is that which you inherit.
And Henry but usurps the diadem.
And give't Iago: what he will do with it
But for the certain knowledge of that truth
Sir, royal sir, forgive a foolish woman:
To contract, O, the time, for, ah, my behove,
That all your interest in those territories
A stop i' the chaser, a retire, anon
In a new channel, fair and evenly;
Make your proof.
Following,--her womb then rich with my young squire,--
Second trumpet
To desire this honest gentlewoman, your maid, to
Come, leave your tears: a brief farewell: the beast
Would not my lords return to me again,
be pold, I pray you; follow me into the pit; and
A wife of such wood were felicity.
His mansion and his titles in a place
And give them life whom hunger starved half dead.
With fiery eyes sparkling for very wrath,
Yet hath he in him such a mind of honour.
And more I beg not.
When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
let him sleep till day. I'll to the court in the
Think you a little din can daunt mine ears?
Where every god did seem to set his seal,
But since my landing I have understood
O son! the night before thy wedding-day
Here must I stay, and here my life must end.
Thee and thy virtues here I seize upon:
[Sings]
darkness; alias, the devil.
That dotage gives it.
Exeunt
Is crimson in thy lips and in thy cheeks,
Pray you, speak no more to me: I will leave all as I
Even in the milk-white bosom of thy love.
not thou, when thou art king, hang a thief.
I prithee, give no limits to my tongue:
What secret hath held you here, that you followed
Until I send for thee.
And sleeps again. This is that very Mab
Ay, my lord;
The chief perfections of that lovely dame
shotten herring. There live not three good men
Shall I live on to see this bastard kneel
Get you hence, sirrah; saucy fellow, hence!
painted cloths.
Mistrust of my success hath done this deed.
The tenor of my book; trust not my age,
But makes it much more heavy. Hector's opinion
Had falsely thrust upon contrary feet,
If you we re civil and knew courtesy,
And he that loosed them forth their brazen caves:
Wilt thou serve me? for since patiently and
Are you fast married? Be assured of this,
Host, will you go?
in this wise company? How dost thou, Apemantus?
To hold your hand more close: I did endure
Still thus, and thus; still worse!
Do't, and to bed then.
Now, for the love of Love and her soft hours,
I know you do not love me; for your sisters
O Dorset, speak not to me, get thee hence!
Haply your eye shall light upon some toy
That may be must be, love, on Thursday next.
little nearer this ways:--I myself dwell with master
That from my first have been inclined to thrift;
This monument five hundred years hath stood,
In our sustaining corn. A century send forth;
almost six thousand years old, and in all this time
And, though I kill him not, I am the cause
from your encounter, then they light on us.
For thou thyself hast been a libertine,
And that craves wary walking. Crown him?--that;--
he so takes on yonder with my husband; so rails
Remember your bold life too.
As if this flesh which walls about our life,
Against all noble sufferance.
Which dreams indeed are ambition, for the very
your honour
Of all that world of wealth I have drawn together
See when and where she died.
I thought so then:--I'll kill myself for grief:--
Which you denied me: was that done like Cassius?
with an ordinary fool that has no more brain
That knew'st this was the prince,
I did.
Yet look to have them buzz to offend thine ears.
With that harsh, noble, simple nothing,
Might I a son and daughter now have look'd on,
And what hear there for welcome but my groans?
Out of mine own; his days and times are past
ANTIPHOLUS
Ay, sir, all this is so: but why
The Antoniad, the Egyptian admiral,
What with him? he comes not
To hear themselves remember'd.
How now! What's the matter?
Forgive my fearful sails! I little thought
We may digest our complots in some form.
Which his fair tongue, conceit's expositor,
Tell me where is fancy bred,
I will give you the minstrel.
It pleases time and fortune to lie heavy
And yet she'll kneel and pray; I have seen her do't.
Why have I blabb'd? who shall be true to us,
For lovers ever run before the clock.
To bring you in again.
you'll undertake her no more?
How near's the other army?
I have yielded to: fresh embassies and suits,
If you think meet, this afternoon will post
Mount you, my lord; towards Berwick post amain:
Were he in favour as in humour alter'd.
brains! for,--here he comes,--one of thy kin has a
To glow the delicate cheeks which they did cool,
And for her sake I will not part with him.
My father and Glendower being both away,
Should be presented at our tent to us.
The daughter of this lord?
the danger is in standing to't; that's the loss of
Of violent birth, but poor validity;
Of general assault.
Those will I muster up: and thou, son Clarence,
In fear our motion will be mock'd or carp'd at,
And thou, good goddess Nature, which hast made it
Let one attend him with a silver basin
Painting, sir, I have heard say, is a mystery; and
Who waits there? Sure, you know me?
Here, sir, a ring she bid me give you, sir:
Sheathe your dagger:
There's no such sport as sport by sport o'erthrown,
That is the sum of all, Leonato. Signior Claudio
facinerious spirit that will not acknowledge it to be the--
strike sooner than speak, and speak sooner than
Go to thy lady's grave and call hers thence,
Three Dukes of Somerset, threefold renown'd
handkerchers: which makes much against my manhood,
Nay, my troth, I know not: but I know, to be up
of Ephesus attending.
Drown'd, drown'd.
But to be paddling palms and pinching fingers,
Airy succeeders of intestate joys,
Was guilty of it. Farewell worthy lord!
Such mortal drugs I have; but Mantua's law
To act in safety. There is none but he
How now, Ophelia!
They call this bed-work, mappery, closet-war;
As he controll'd the war; but one of these--
Approach, ho! All's not well: Caesar's beguiled.
To think these spirits?
All lovers young, all lovers must
My father watches: O sir, fly this place;
Dream often so,
Drawn by report, adventurous by desire,
Manifest treason!
And sith so neighbour'd to his youth and havior,
Calpurnia!
Bring me word how tall she is. Pity me, Charmian,
Exeunt Citizens
Say there be;
divinity, to any other's, profanation.
Had it pleased heaven
Thou know'st that all my fortunes are at sea;
O, would he did! and so perhaps he doth:
A gracious person: but yet I cannot love him;
You told not how Henry the Sixth hath lost
No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones,
city's cost, the pissing-conduit run nothing but
Like one well studied in a sad ostent
but that they are limed with the twigs that threaten
And in his parties, his alliance; let him be
Pourquoi, my dear knight?
And am moreover suitor that I may
villains march wide betwixt the legs, as if they had
My lord cardinal,
Of necessary fitness?
Not knowing what they fear, but full of fear:
Then comes my fit again: I had else been perfect,
So well, nothing so well; no, nor mean better:
Though this be all, do not so quickly go;
her as love hath pursued me; which hath been on the
Seem'd not to strike, but smooth: but thou
A poor esquire of Kent, that loves his king.
A hundred thousand more; in surety of the which,
whilst he railed at me. 'Sfoot, I'll learn to
from Master Slender.
that I have sent her, by her own command
SCENE VI. A field of battle.
Use honour with you.
Against that great magician, damn'd Glendower,
Exit
Ay, good now, love, love, nothing but love.
the thunder would not peace at my bidding; there I
fluent as the sea: turn the sands into eloquent
see you at my death. Notwithstanding, use your
Since my becomings kill me, when they do not
Of fickle changelings and poor discontents,
To do me business in the veins o' the earth
Take on with me and ne'er be satisfied!
A joyless, dismal, black, and sorrowful issue:
fought a long hour by Shrewsbury clock. If I may be
We will heal up all;
That robs thee of thy goodness! If thou dost
The time was once when thou unurged wouldst vow
Your grace shall pardon me, I will not back:
who, God bless the mark, is a kind of devil; and, to
Are made already mothers: by my count,
So many hours must I sport myself;
SCENE II. Another street.
under the hangman: which though it be great pity,
I will: and therefore keep it. Rosaline,
And with my sword I'll keep this door safe.
for my father hated his father dearly; yet I hate
Prodigious birth of love it is to me,
Exeunt
How I have loved my king and commonweal:
What need you note it? pray you, keep your way:
My lord, whoever journeys to the Prince,
Who broils in loud applause, and make him fall
The insolence of office and the spurns
Sir, I do know you;
Thanks, good sir:
Ay, and in a brooch of lead.
eye,--by this light, but for her eye, I would not
at such a convoy; who came off bravely, who was
Armed in proof, and led by shallow Richmond.
In hewing Rutland when his leaves put forth,
The specialty of rule hath been neglected:
To gratify the good Andronicus,
But I a beam do find in each of three.
That it shall hold companionship in peace
Enter DUKE SENIOR, AMIENS, and two or three Lords, like foresters
That it went hand in hand even with the vow
But that the people praise her for her virtues
Indeed would make one think there might be thought,
Soothsayer!
The son and heir of old Tiberio.
this but as an essay or taste of my virtue.
Why didst thou stoop, then?
And sleep in spite of thunder.
O heavens! what stuff is here
Which had they, what four throned ones could have weigh'd
For he's inclined as is the ravenous wolf.
It burneth in the Capel's monument.
Strikes him
My husband lives, that Tybalt would have slain;
have eat no meat these five days; yet, come thou and
If not, I'll use the advantage of my power
Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth:
another to Page's wife, who even now gave me good
words are grown so false, I am loath to prove
To have it added to the faults of mine,
Then let us teach our trial patience,
Out of his lunacies.
Ne'er saw her match since first the world begun.
And thence to France shall we convey you safe,
I must obey: his art is of such power,
You did supplant your brother Prospero.
And bloody steel grasp'd in their ireful hands,
Let me see what he writes, and when he means to come.
like my lady your niece: on a forgotten matter we
To meet Northumberland and the prelate Scroop,
Hadst thou not the privilege of antiquity upon thee,--
More matter, with less art.
The least whereof would quell a lover's hope,
Or wallow naked in December snow
And follows so the ever-running year,
had as lief be wooed of a snail.
Exit
Nothing to think on but ensuing death:
Not hold thee of our blood, no, not our kin,
Your sudden coming o'er, to play with him.
Mine eyes are full of tears, I cannot see:
So the proportions of defence are fill'd;
Sweet varied notes, enchanting every ear!
Go draw aside the curtains and discover
Thy prime of manhood daring, bold, and venturous,
How tame, when men and women are alone,
Bushy and Green, I will not vex your souls--
The west yet glimmers with some streaks of day:
Come, then, let's go fight with them; but first, go
Nay, good my lord; for mine ease, in good faith.
O, it is monstrous, monstrous:
Which my dead father did bequeath to me.
To CAMILLO
rouse the night-owl in a catch that will draw three
Either to suffer shipwreck or arrive
I will not ask again. Close villain,
Carlisle, this is your doom:
Rail thou in Fulvia's phrase; and taunt my faults
For Mariana's sake: but as he adjudged your brother,--
Myself, well mounted, hardly have escaped.
Yes, he was.
Being a thing immortal as itself?
But being play'd upon before your time,
That guilty creatures sitting at a play
And did you see the handkerchief?
That by a pace goes backward, with a purpose
Is true of mind and made of no such baseness
yet a coward is worse than a cup of sack with lime
Gifts of rich value. Yet I have not seen
Thus thrust disorderly into my hands,
And that his soul may be as damn'd and black
Had I been judge, thou shouldst have had ten more,
Never presented!--O, a root,--dear thanks!--
Good my lord,
Upon the beached verge of the salt flood;
To greet a man not worth her pains, much less
And there he blasts the tree and takes the cattle
I'll blessing beg of you. For this same lord,
Stop thy unhallow'd toil, vile Montague!
With the attainder of his slanderous lips.
Of our proceedings here: on the marketplace,
And sets a blister there, makes marriage-vows
And only in that safety died her brothers.
Your over-kindness doth wring tears from me!
many; Jaques, so many; Guiltian, Cosmo, Lodowick,
The fall of every Phrygian stone will cost
By your leave, sir: I am sick till I see her.
To spoil the city and your royal court.
A prince of Macedon, my royal father;
And the gods strengthen thee!
For thou shalt know this strong right hand of mine
And, in the spiced Indian air, by night,
the borrowed veil of modesty from the so seeming
DON
The gunner and his mate
To-morrow, may it please you, Don Alphonso,
Page's wife acquainted each other how they love me?
It is no matter if the tied were lost; for it is the
Detract so much from that prerogative,
sallet, my brainpan had been cleft with a brown
Let me work;
Than all you fiery oes and eyes of light.
Caius Marcius.
I'll board him presently.
Exit
So I heard you say.
For they have grudged us contribution:
'No, sir,' says question, 'I, sweet sir, at yours:'
station; here's no place for you; pray you, avoid: come.
And are you grown so high in his esteem;
Or else my sword with an unbatter'd edge
That bore thee at a burden two fair sons:
Who, when my heart, all mad with misery,
shore of my modesty: but my brother justice have I
Peace, cousin Percy; you will make him mad.
Enter QUEEN, BUSHY, and BAGOT
And tell false Edward, thy supposed king,
Put forth thy hand, reach at the glorious gold.
but even now. Whoa, ho, hoa!
With barbarous ignorance and deny his youth
And thou unfit for any place but hell.
There is a tide in the affairs of men,
Ned Poins and I will walk lower: if they 'scape
Not the king's crown, nor the deputed sword,
I think you know him; Master Doctor Caius, the
Look where my ranting host of the Garter comes:
They cannot be too sweet for the king's tartness.
Here, through this grate, I count each one
And bite thy tongue, that slanders him with cowardice
And with the southern clouds contend in tears,
As they smelt music: so I charm'd their ears
From tyrant duke unto a tyrant brother:
With ribands pendent, flaring 'bout her head;
Of other lords and barons, knights and squires,
Thou robb'st me of a moiety: he was my son;
Enter the PRINCESS, KATHARINE, ROSALINE, and MARIA
Your letters did withhold our breaking forth;
gods. Make the meat be beloved more than the man
Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
And then, forsooth, the faint defects of age
Is a strange brooch in this all-hating world.
Paris should ne'er retract what he hath done,
Enter KING RICHARD and his attendants below
Thou earth, thou! speak.
Which being shallow, you give me leave
I have sent after him: he says he'll come;
Who, I am sure, is kind and comfortable:
more money than I'll speak of.
that I can drink with any tinker in his own language
And with a kind of umber smirch my face;
Not bear the knife myself. Besides, this Duncan
To fetch a ladder, by the which your love
no harm: you saw they speak us fair, give us gold:
His way to Dover.
The king was slily finger'd from the deck!
And frown upon 's.
And silken dalliance in the wardrobe lies:
In this time of the night! Bring him away:
I was preserved to serve this noble count.
not worth the feeding.
Which twain have brought her to.
Priapus, and undo a whole generation. We must
Because she will admit no kind of suit,
God's bread! it makes me mad:
He would have given it you; but I, being in the way,
good fire. But, sure, he is the prince of the
Good night.
Make haste, I say.
That doth my life besiege. Farewell, young lords;
Whilst that Lavinia 'tween her stumps doth hold
'Tis so:
now should not the shoe speak a word for weeping:
Look, where they come:
End ere I do begin.
Hardly one subject.
Exit
Cold biting winter mars our hoped-for hay.
They would restrain the one, distain the other.
That there should be small love 'mongst these
For look where Beatrice, like a lapwing, runs
See where she comes from shrift with merry look.
When every case in law is right;
An old Italian fox is not so kind, my boy.
Thou art too noble to conserve a life
For all in vain comes counsel to his ear.
Nay, but speak not maliciously.
England, from Trent and Severn hitherto,
The strength o' the enemy.
That oft in field, with targe and shield, did make
Are you not a strumpet?
Of his ill-ta'en suspicion! Come, Camillo;
And ne'er be weary. Alcibiades,
How! no more!
I'll show thee some attires, and have thy counsel
Go, call our uncle to our presence straight;
Senseless Linen! happier therein than I!
did: I met this man with my glove in his cap, and I
I know this cannot be.
O'ercome you with her show, and in time,
Hector is slain.
Go fetch me a quart of sack; put a toast in't.
being a very beastly creature, lays claim to me.
I was; but I do find more pain in banishment
I dare no longer stay.
My sword is drawn.
With these forced thoughts, I prithee, darken not
Not too hot:
one of his men was with the Lord Lucullus to borrow
That no revenue hast but thy good spirits,
Let him make treble satisfaction.
Good morrow, then.
My wife descended of the Lacies,--
Where every horse bears his commanding rein,
Have you forgot the Duke of Hereford, boy?
in all companies! I would have, as one should say,
Silver I there it goes, Silver!
Why, he that's tied here, Crab, my dog.
Guiderius had
That lately stole his daughter:
This is not yet an Alexandrian feast.
white-bearded fellow speaks it: knavery cannot,
I thank your lordship, it is very hot.
I will not ruinate my father's house,
What's that, Butts?
on her, for they ride up and down on her and make
With a more larger list of sceptres.
endeavour be so loved and the performance so loathed?
undermine it, the walls will stand till they fall of
That ever Katharina will be woo'd;
And all by thee. Away! convey him hence.
Or he shall pay for this.
Dinner is ready, and your father stays.
For me, by this pale queen of night I swear,
Were equal poise of sin and charity.
Indeed, my lord, I think it be two o'clock.
What, now?
Didst thou hear these verses?
drawn, monster, in good sooth!
The trick of that voice I do well remember:
To thee the book even of my secret soul:
That will not be denied your highness presence:
Life's but a walking shadow, a poor player
Marry, God forbid his grace should say us nay!
It is; and all the rest are countesses.
I do presume, sir, that you are not fallen
A damned death!
And his opinion: now I change my mind,
Good repose the while!
And, as she fled, her mantle she did fall,
have them, they are not worth the search.
Briefly, I dwell by the Capitol.
Of divination in our sister work
Leave nothing out for length, and make us think
Amen.
'Twill not be lost.
Allegiance in them; their curses now
My inch of taper will be burnt and done,
Not better than he, by her own report.
Our coronation: lords, prepare yourselves.
Lo, by my truth, the instrument is cold
I fear thou art another counterfeit;
Go whip him, 'fore the people's eyes:--his raising;
My work hath yet not warm'd me: fare you well:
Why, then, young Bertram, take her; she's thy wife.
Faith, sir, he did love her; but how?
My lords ambassadors, your several suits
Like a right gipsy, hath, at fast and loose,
this noise?
Hath nature that in time will venom breed,
Enter TAMORA
Stephano is my name; and I bring word
good soldiers and tall fellows; and when Mistress
Welcome shall they be;
Make those that do offend you suffer too.
What wilt thou do?
Will not your honours bear me company?
Go thou with me, and let me counsel thee.
I think the devil will not have me damned, lest the
to purse-taking.
Lies my consent and fair according voice.
I would not have given it for a wilderness of monkeys.
Exeunt WARWICK and SALISBURY
Cannot pursue us. If thou lovest me then,
the right: but to the point. As I say, this
Have put to death an hundred senators.
She's too hard for you at pricks, sir: challenge her to bowl.
Reverend sir,
He uses his folly like a stalking-horse and under
I will dismount, and by the waggon-wheel
Thou princely leader of our English strength,
Either in discourse of thought or actual deed,
Alarum. Hector and Ajax fight
Of noble Buckingham, my father-in-law:
By longing for that food so long a time.
Hopest thou my cure?
Else he had been damned for cozening the devil.
No bending knee will call thee Caesar now,
You heavenly blessings, on her! This fool's speed
You gods, look down
Nor cheer of mind, that I was wont to have.
No, cousin, I'll to Fife.
Prithee, peace:
A sennet sounded. Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, MARK  ANTONY, LEPIDUS, POMPEY, AGRIPPA, MECAENAS, DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS, MENAS, with other captains
For piercing steel and darts envenomed
Use no entreaty, for it is in vain.
I'll rather be unmannerly than troublesome.
Collected for this expedition.
postscript.
What is't? a spirit?
I would desires.
What have you done, my lord, with the dead body?
Yea, on his part I'll empty all these veins,
Do more than counterpoise a full third part
To let him slip at will.
But I will wed thee in another key,
Yet writers say, as in the sweetest bud
O Mistress Ford, what have you done? You're shamed,
The queen from France hath brought a puissant power:
Fear you the boar, and go so unprovided?
Egeus, I will overbear your will;
All but the base.
According to our order.
Asses.
E'en so; a great deal of your wit, too, lies in your
Commend me to one Hubert with your king:
sir. My master hath appointed me to go to Saint
Brethren and sisters of the hold-door trade,
Not i' the worst rank of manhood, say 't;
And am I guerdon'd at the last with shame?
Whereto the rather shall his day's hard journey
Fellows in arms, and my most loving friends,
When, lo! to interrupt my purposed rest,
Have stood to charity, and display'd the effects
Thine, as he vowed to thee in thine ear,
taking, I doubt me.
Arm'd, say you?
Of the right casket, never in my life
By water shall he die, and take his end.
Speak briefly, can you like of Paris' love?
sure, hide himself in such reverence.
Let me say 'amen' betimes, lest the devil cross my
For the most worthiest fit! Give me your pardon.
Making the bold wag by their praises bolder:
And she shall be sole victress, Caesar's Caesar.
had rather go with sir priest than sir knight: I
Thou art Hermione; or rather, thou art she
Ay, my lord.
That this foul deed shall smell above the earth
Those at her father's churlish feet she tender'd;
Thou wouldst appear most ugly. He is married?
My gracious prince, and honourable peers,
It were impossible I should speed amiss.
A little time, my lord, will kill that grief.
have challenged him. Let him let the matter slip,
there's laying on, take't off who will, as they say:
Or that or any place that harbours men.
The adornment of her bed; the arras; figures,
takes not away my blood, were there twenty brothers
Prince Pericles, touch not, upon thy life.
Call ye the warlike Talbot, for his acts
By external swelling: but she looks like sleep,
And keep your mind, till you return to us,
My daughter will I question how she loves you,
Thy fortunes. How! that I should murder her?
treasons, makes me betake me to my heels.
Would blow me to an ague, when I thought
Let it go; there's few or none will entertain it.
Bids't thou me rage? why, now thou hast thy wish:
Nay, but say true; does it work upon him?
my neighbours shall cry aim.
Witty, courteous, liberal, full of spirit.
sheep-shearing.
they come to Berwick, from whence they came.
Nay, I dare not swear it.
This deity in my bosom: twenty consciences,
My staff? here, noble Henry, is my staff:
The Dauphin longs for morning.
Let it be forbid, sir; so should I be a great deal
Jesu bless him!
o'erhanging firmament, this majestical roof fretted
The scepter'd office of your ancestors,
Now my dear lady, hath mine enemies
Ill in myself to see, and in thee seeing ill.
becomes the ground.
And that beyond commission, and I find it,
THE SONG
An honest woman, or not a woman.
were he a horse;
Truly, I think they are.
Reveal yourself to him.
More villain thou. Well, push him out of doors;
The ground is bloody; search about the churchyard:
And I am mean indeed, respecting you.
By giving it the worship of revenge.
I love to cope him in these sullen fits,
The climate's delicate, the air most sweet,
Exit
And then begin again, and stop again,
received belief, in despite of the teeth of all
Stands here for God, his sovereign and himself,
Read the indictment.
As thou and I; who, as thou know'st, are dear
The satisfaction of her knowledge only
O God, counterfeit! There was never counterfeit of
O, God's will! much better
cow short horns;' but to a cow too curst he sends none.
Jesu Maria, what a deal of brine
Inquire me out some mean-born gentleman,
My lady goes to kill horns; but, if thou marry,
And seek how we may prejudice the foe.
Yet I alone, alone do me oppose
By my troth, Sir Toby, you must come in earlier o'
That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
Be not too tame neither, but let your own discretion
Your son shall have my daughter with consent.
The gates made fast! Brother, I like not this;
The wall, methinks, being sensible, should curse again.
With cozening hope: he is a flatterer,
And see what death is doing.
But these sweet thoughts do even refresh my labours,
You offer him, if this be so, a wrong
That owes two buckets, filling one another,
Re-enter a Servant, with boxes, napkins, and fire
A woman, and thy aunt, great king; 'tis I.
If they will fight with us, bid them come down,
O world, thou wast the forest to this hart;
Of this dead butcher and his fiend-like queen,
But little vantage shall I reap thereby;
Your officer, Iago, can inform you,--
Lips, let sour words go by and language end:
Raise up the Montagues: some others search:
adheres together, that no dram of a scruple, no
now stands, he will avoid your accusation; he made
In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
One sees more devils than vast hell can hold,
Imprison'd thou didst painfully remain
O, no, my nephew must not know, Sir Richard,
His valour, coin and people, in the wars?
But will they come when you do call for them?
We'll sure provide: thou shalt have my best gown to
But now I am past an comforts here, but prayers.
Out of their saddles into the dirt; and thereby
Thou play'dst most foully for't: yet it was said
If these be true spies which I wear in my head,
And give him burial in his father's grave:
Sir, I thank you.
I would not have believed him,--no tongue but Hubert's.
The cardinal instantly will find employment,
The very heart of kindness.
Your father's wife did after wedlock bear him,
As one that takes his leave. Mine honest friends,
I do begin to perceive that I am made an ass.
Inferreth arguments of mighty strength,
When one so great begins to rage, he's hunted
And Tybalt calls; and then on Romeo cries,
She is alone.
What was't to you?
Which is too nigh your person. Heaven preserve you!
How now, you dog!
We kept together in our chivalry!'
But knows of him no more. My dearest madam,
You have a nimble wit: I think 'twas made of
Enter MARCUS and LAVINIA
I durst not!
Truly, by your office, you may; but I think they
Though you respect not aught your servant doth,
Well, bring our lady hither to our sight;
O, she did so course o'er my exteriors with such a
May happily bring forth. But who comes here?
And follow thee my lord throughout the world.
Till all these mischiefs be return'd again
impieties for the which they are now visited. Every
Then my account I well may, give,
As this hath made me. Who was he that said
Or is your gold and silver ewes and rams?
And wherefore crave you combat? or with whom?
Who look'd full gently on his warlike queen,
The king, I can tell you, looks for us all: we must
As amorous of their strokes. For her own person,
'Lack, to what end?
My friend Stephano, signify, I pray you,
Yonder's the head of that arch-enemy
Knacks, trifles, nosegays, sweetmeats, messengers
SCENE I. Windsor. Before PAGE's house.
Speak yet, how grew your quarrel?
To reinforcement, or we perish all.
I'll turn to sparks of fire.
Make boot of his distraction: never anger
Exeunt carriers
Such bold hostility, teaching his duteous land
Pierce every sense about thee! Old fond eyes,
For thy solicitor shall rather die
well, sir.
Sometimes he talks as if Duke Humphrey's ghost
Yes, to pay a fine for a periwig and recover the
That is, her love; for that is all in all.
Didst thou behold Octavia?
Moreover that we much did long to see you,
That bring these tidings to this fair assembly.
Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was
I cannot choose but tell him, that I care not,
Admit him entrance, Griffith: but this fellow
Wherefore is Charles impatient with his friend!
He had of me a chain: at five o'clock
tempted, and he had an excellent strength; yet was
That want their leader, scatter up and down
Let me tell you, Cassius, you yourself
Mercy on me!
Desiring thee that Publius Cimber may
Means he not us? I partly know him: 'tis
What is the matter there?
Deprived of honour and inheritance.
So I have. Farewell
Though daintily brought up, with patience more
Attend him here this morning.
You scurvy lord!
holding or loss of that, you term her frail. I do
I am not mad: this hair I tear is mine;
There is nothing done, if he return the conqueror:
And I expressly am forbid to touch it,
Which thou takest from me. When thou camest first,
Be ready to direct these home alarms.
Hail, royal sir!
Thus I enforce thy rotten jaws to open,
Receive the ring again.
rogue's company. If the rascal hath not given me
Be Mowbray's sins so heavy in his bosom,
Holla, within!
'Tis true:--nay, keep the ring--'tis true: I am sure
Ariel plays the tune on a tabour and pipe
painted also with a wheel, to signify to you, which
Is fall'n into thy ear! What false Italian,
Exit
And now is York in arms to second him.
Enter, severally, DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as a friar, and Provost
Enter GONERIL
Humbly I thank your grace.
The duke be here to-night? The better! best!
I humbly thank your highness;
Is not Gaunt dead, and doth not Hereford live?
Had he none else to make a stale but me?
I see I cannot get thy father's love;
Ere yet the fight be done, pack up: down with them!
So said, so done, is well.
True, sir; she was the wife of Caius Marcellus.
A party in this alteration, finding
Lives he, good uncle? thrice within this hour
It's almost morning, is't not?
An plant this thorn, this canker, Bolingbroke?
well-favoured and he speaks very shrewishly; one
And pinch'd the lily-tincture of her face,
There's no remedy;
To do our country loss; and if to live,
Which he not dreams of.
Revenged!
Nor wrong mine age with this indignity.
and kindly.
Pursue her; and for this intelligence
I cry thee mercy then, for I had thought
Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Never Hamlet:
But thou from loving England art so far,
and therefore too much odds for a Spaniard's rapier.
sheet of paper: my daughter tells us all.
A cittern-head.
ne'er got 'em.
Enter a Shepherd
For fury not to be resisted. Thus defied,
Judgment.
indeed, for I love thee against my will.
When neither is attended, and I think
Let's dry our eyes: and thus far hear me, Cromwell;
All, away!
A parasite, a keeper back of death,
That shall first spring and be most delicate.
I have deliver'd to Lord Angelo,
So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to't.
Prince, pardon me, or strike me, if you please;
But winter and rough weather.
While you perform your antic round:
Yet that is but a crush'd necessity,
Exeunt Wife, Beadle, Mayor,  and c
Alas, it cried 'Give me some drink, Titinius,'
When we will tempt the frailty of our powers,
Epistrophus and Cedius: Polyxenes is slain,
O woman, if it were not for one trifling respect, I
humour to knock you indifferently well. If you grow
That may give furtherance to our expedition;
An I cannot, cannot, cannot,
Lets fall his sword before your highness' feet,
Be so much more the man. Nor time nor place
But she, your subject, loathes such sovereignty.
And would in action glorious I had lost
Seldom but sumptuous, showed like a feast
Than if you had at leisure known of this.
I shall obey you in all fair commands.
Balm his foul head in warm distilled waters
If Cleopatra heard you, your reproof
From off the head of this Athenian swain;
And, were they but attired in grave weeds,
How fares our cousin, noble Lord of York?
Come to thy grandam, child.
perfecter giber for the table than a necessary
then another fault in the semblance of a fowl; think
To keep your earthly audit: sure, in that
O, I beseech you, pardon me, my lord, in that.
Sound!
Will I Rosalinda write,
Seems to flow from him! How, i' the name of thrift,
The kiss you take is better than you give;
Farewell, good Salisbury; and good luck go with thee!
I'll save you
Than to be perk'd up in a glistering grief,
Here! what should he do here?
and a pair of sweet gloves.
I have told my neighbour how you have been solicited
SCENE IV. Another part of the same street, before the house of BRUTUS.
Took it in snuff; and still he smiled and talk'd,
out the villain Gloucester.
Cassio came hither: I shifted him away,
And will not hear it. What committed!
for a hen! So, my good window of lattice, fare thee
The founder of this law and female bar.
And I to thee engaged a prince's word,
Beshrew your heart for sending me about,
PROLOGUE
With the earl, sir, here within.
parle, know now, upon advice, it toucheth us both,
Pray, set it down and rest you: when this burns,
To leave the city and commit yourself
les mots aussi droit que les natifs d'Angleterre.
maintain his argument as well as any military man in
Peruse this paper, madam.
To look so poorly and to speak so fair?
A retreat is sounded
The marshal's truncheon, nor the judge's robe,
Makes the survivor heir of all.
But his own wringing! What infinite heart's-ease
Prest for this blow. The unborn event
have of late knocked too often at my door. I find
Buz, buz!
I thank thee, gentle Percy; and be sure
But how is it that great Plantagenet
Let us from it.
Sir, I say to you we are none.
To see the strange impatience of the heavens:
Where Henry and dame Margaret kneel'd to me
That kitchen'd me for you to-day at dinner:
Let him that makes but trifles of his eyes
Hath Death lain with thy wife. There she lies,
God forgive my sins, and pardon thee!
Else, farewell Talbot, France, and England's honour.
'Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire.'
I have.
As many lines close in the dial's centre;
And I had rather glib myself than they
Stinking and fly-blown lies here at our feet.
By your most gracious pardon,
And makes us rather bear those ills we have
Come, tailor, let us see these ornaments;
Was Duke of Milan; and thou his only heir
Here's snip and nip and cut and slish and slash,
Lucius, a bowl of wine!
Thou shalt be so well master'd, but, be sure,
Smiles at her news, while Warwick frowns at his.
Vie feathers white. Marina gets
Enter IMOGEN
Good morrow, good my lord.
it may be quickly.
See, see; what a man you are now!
And die among our neighbours. Nay, behold 's:
Do I so? take thou that.
To a strong mast that lived upon the sea;
Intends his journey; and within three days
If thou more murmur'st, I will rend an oak
Go to, go to; you have known what you should not.
To think of what a noble strain you are,
That I was not ignoble of descent;
As is the difference betwixt day and night
And for his ordinary pays his heart
soldier's, which is ambitious, nor the lawyer's,
If Salisbury be lost.
I do but stay till your marriage be consummate, and
Was not the Duke of Orleans thy foe?
Thy death and fortunes bid thy followers fly.
So doth the cony struggle in the net.
Be not as common fools; if you are not,
I barely gratify your love; they failing,
my simple true judgment; or would you have me speak
Whereby they live: and though that all at once,
Sir, step you forth;
And these mine enemies are all knit up
I saw him in the battle range about;
Lends the tongue vows: these blazes, daughter,
the very next turning, turn of no hand, but turn
to put off; but he hath conjured me beyond them, and
Mistress Page! trust me, I was going to your house.
Written to bear along.
In that he did the thing for which he died:
with them:'
Dull not device by coldness and delay.
Your commendations, madam, get from her tears.
Ay, but not enough.
Stood now within the pretty flowerets' eyes
Whose mind and mine, I know, in that are one,
Re-enter DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
To seek you at your house. Well, I will hie,
And curb this cruel devil of his will.
My lord,--
Thy mother gave thee when thou suck'dst her breast,
CORIOLANUS offers to go away
Some two months hence up higher toward the north
advised him for the entertainment of death.
Where is Montjoy the herald? speed him hence:
wrinkled, their eyes purging thick amber and
Three thousand confident, in act as many--
Therein do men from children nothing differ.
Say, how is that?
would do reason.
The many-colour'd Iris, rounds thine eye?
I'll pay it presently with all my heart.
and place shall serve, that I am an ass.
Whose smoke, like incense, doth perfume the sky.
Then waved his handkerchief?
And further he desires to know of you,
Cerberus is at Proserpine's beauty, ay, that thou
That, having our fair order written down,
O excellent! I love long life better than figs.
Kent, sir, the banish'd Kent; who in disguise
No more dams I'll make for fish
Come, draw the curtain, Nerissa.
It shall be seven ere I go to horse:
Hoisted sail and made away for Brittany.
man, as you know all, hath a contemptible spirit.
Well, well; the event.
On one and other side, Trojan and Greek,
By your allowance; which if you should, the fault
Present the fair steed to my lady Cressid:
Grandam, we can; for my good uncle Gloucester
of my knowledge, insomuch I say I know you are;
Anon becomes a mountain. O noble Dauphin,
Affrights thee with a hell of ugly devils!
But, to Orlando: did he leave him there,
Nay, by your leave, hold your hands; though I know
There shall your swords and lances arbitrate
Cripple our senators, that their limbs may halt
How I shall take her from her father's house,
He shall not.
Farewell to you; and you; and you, Volumnius.
Good Monsieur Lavache, give my Lord Lafeu this
ANTIPHOLUS
Not a word: if you have any thing to say to me,
This done, see that you take no longer days,
Utter my thoughts? Why, say they are vile and false;
Than those for preservation cased, or shame--
Where should we have our thanks?
Of law and course of direct session
There might have been,
Sort how it will, I shall have gold for all.
Holy and heavenly thoughts still counsel her:
'Against the Duke of Suffolk, for enclosing the
At the Saint Francis here beside the port.
Kneels
'Faith, my lord. I spoke it but according to the
Having my freedom, boast of nothing else
After defunction of King Pharamond,
I do assure you, 'tis against my will.
Been thus encounter'd. A figure like your father,
Charmian!
A man that loves not me, nor none of you.
And they shall be themselves.
for, believe me, I hear the parson is no jester.
Splitting the air with noise.
For I must hence; and farewell to you all.
Yea, and so used it that were it not here apparent
That time serves still.
Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
Romeo slew him, he slew Mercutio;
Once did I lay an ambush for your life,
My faculties nor person, yet will be
What our contempt doth often hurl from us,
Henry the Fifth: whiles they each other cross,
And neigh, and bark, and grunt, and roar, and burn,
When good manners shall lie all in one or two men's
To wilful disobedience, and rebel!
Nothing will come of nothing: speak again.
Among nine bad if one be good,
get his sinews to make catlings on.
Belike your lordship takes us then for fools,
Enter Soldiers, with the body of JOHN TALBOT
But know not how to do it.
Since all the power thereof it doth apply
Shall I do such a deed?
If ever she leave Troilus! Time, force, and death,
It fits us then to be as provident
Therefore with frank and with uncurbed plainness
And you within it: if he fail of that,
Cuts off his tale and talks of Arthur's death.
Now will I lead you to the house, and show you
my acquaintance with thee, or rather my knowledge,
Disorder, horror, fear and mutiny
SCENE I. A room in Lucullus' house.
Be it on lion, bear, or wolf, or bull,
When he doth run his course. Antonius!
He is walked up to the top of the hill: I'll go seek him.
No, faith, not a jot; but to follow him thither with
Do their best office, if they can but stay you
Or wrath or craft may get him.
You do mistake me, sir.
I' the dungeon by a snuff?
Exeunt all but PISANIO
That was the whip of your bragg'd progeny,
And your experience makes you sad: I had rather have
cheese, Nestor, and that same dog-fox, Ulysses, is
Go to, sirrah, tell the king from me, that, for his
Do kiss the most exalted shores of all.
must give myself some hurts, and say I got them in
In christening shalt thou have two god-fathers:
For friends kill friends, and the disorder's such
corrupt him to revolt.' What say you to this? what
Hail to thee, lady! and the grace of heaven,
Mine's not an idle cause: the duke himself,
pausing
Exit FASTOLFE
Arrest me, foolish fellow, if thou darest.
And after, this: and then to breakfast with
That, if it chance the one of us do fail,
They rise
Put on the gown, stand naked and entreat them,
need to be; virtuous enough; swore little; diced not
The unviolated honour of your wife.
As duly, but not as truly,
The king hath note of all that they intend,
Of the world's ransom, blessed Mary's Son,
fingering, so; we'll try with tongue too: if none
Father, I may not wish the fortune thine;
No foot shall stir.
The emperor calls Canidius.
five or at seven?
Proclaim you are no less! Can you so stead me
Jewel of children, seen this hour, he had pair'd
That, were my state far worser than it is,
talk through the chink of a wall.
No, if rightly taken, halter.
And all that poets feign of bliss and joy.
More than I dare make faults. You few that loved me,
Why uncle, thou hast many years to live.
To-morrow, soldier,
All men's!
out, when Lady the brach may stand by the fire and stink.
I hope so, sir; for I have about me many parcels of charge.
Were busied with a Whitsun morris-dance:
There would be hands uplifted in my right;
Come, shall we go?
leave them: and, sirrah, I have cases of buckram
And happier much by his affliction made.
What, do you shake at that?
To tell us whether they will come or no!
Ah, Gloucester, teach me to forget myself!
Whate'er the course, the end is the renown.
Of such a winnow'd purity in love;
I prithee now, sweet son, as thou hast said
Who having into truth, by telling of it,
With much ado at length have gotten leave
fox; and for womanhood, Maid Marian may be the
Somewhat too sudden, sirs, the warning is;
As duteous to the vices of thy mistress
France, thou mayst hold a serpent by the tongue,
I know you. Where's the king?
to the king's exchequer.
Ay, my good lord, and she accepts of it.
I purpose not to wait on fortune till
Katharina the curst!
Thou art a soul in bliss; but I am bound
All offices of nature should again
Exit
But you must not now slumber in it.
Dare no more stretch this finger of mine than he
Come not within the measure of my wrath;
The king is now in progress towards Saint Alban's,
Beguiling them of commendation.
your heart: but, good Kate, mock me mercifully; the
And then depart to Paris to the king,
How fares my brother? why is he so sad?
We hold our time too precious to be spent
Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow.
I shall desire you, sir, to give me leave
Leaps to be gone into my mother's bosom.
no stronger than a nutshell and as leaky as an
Would run to these and these extremities:
Look you, sir, such a one I was this present: is't
To every several man, seventy-five drachmas.
This tribute from us, we were free:
All ready; and therefore, I pray thee, news.
Had you not fully laid my state before me,
That they lack; for if their heads had any
Do all expect that you should rouse yourself,
That thou thyself was born in bastardy;
Bold as an oracle, and sets Thersites,
He shall have every day a several greeting,
Exeunt FERDINAND, LONGAVILLE, and DUMAIN
For instant remedy: be then desired
I do lament the sickness of the king.
Give it a plum, a cherry, and a fig:
Of many our contriving friends in Rome
They do, they do: and are apparell'd thus.
Thou art the king of honour:
There were none fine but Adam, Ralph, and Gregory;
Come, come, you're mocking: we will have no telling.
Why did you suffer Iachimo,
Now let us on, my lords, and join our powers,
The worthy gentleman did lose his life.
Art thou not ashamed? But, sirrah, henceforth
There is a Frenchman his companion, one
With every thing that pretty is,
I am glad to be constrain'd to utter that
looked to, without any tricks.
If any be, the trespass of the queen.
[Aside to DUMAIN]  Loves her by the foot,--
Hector? where's Hector? I will none but Hector.
Against acquaintance, kindred and allies:
Enter CURTIS
No, sir.
Your wisdom should show itself more richer to
We live to tell it you, the subtle traitor
see your time, take her by the band, away with her
I do hate a proud man, as I hate the engendering of toads.
Mother, I am going to the market-place;
You must be father to your brother's daughter
To gather from thee: haply thou mayst inform
Prizes not quantity of dirty lands;
You show'd your teeth like apes, and fawn'd like hounds,
Nor let the rain of heaven wet this place,
There lie, and there thy character: there these;
No place, indeed, should murder sanctuarize;
There's hell, there's darkness, there's the
I' the cave wherein they bow, their thoughts do hit
Which never hopes more heaven than rests in thee,
Now, my Lord Hastings and Sir William Stanley,
Enter a Messenger
Our Alexandrian revels; Antony
Your bounty, virtue, fair humility:
I fear I wrong the honourable men
Enter GRANDPRE
Lie with her! lie on her! We say lie on her, when
That I would choose, were I to choose anew.
Is this the scourge of France?
The emperor himself and all thy foes;
he feels no pain, the one lacking the burden of lean
mightily grace himself on thee, he will practise
Would the two princes lie, and Claudio lie,
And say 'To-morrow is Saint Crispian:'
Exeunt DESDEMONA and EMILIA
That at her hands which the king's King forbids.
Only to herald thee into his sight,
This is the woman, but not this the man.
I' the posture of a whore.
To slander music any more than once.
Sir, Mark Antony
This is all.
Hisperia, the princess' gentlewoman,
In sooth, I would you were a little sick,
Concerning his imprisonment, was rather,
In the king's business.
That sleeve is mine that he'll bear on his helm;
thou the beggar; for so witnesseth thy lowliness.
By their own beauties; or, if love be blind,
command you, in his highness' name, to repair to
Sir, my circumstances,
The stealth of our most mutual entertainment
for, sure, unless he know some strain in me, that I
A rashness that I ever yet have shunn'd,
with my disposition that this goodly frame, the
My father hath set guard to take my brother;
Appear like mice; and yond tall anchoring bark,
shall find, within these two days he will be here.
When he was seated in a chariot
The greatest man in England but the king.
will mow all down before him, and leave his passage polled.
Do.
I will, my lord.
With my request, which I make bold your highness
Hot, hot, and moist: this hand of yours requires
Come your ways, come your ways; an you draw backward,
'Twere good he were school'd.
King Edward's fruit, true heir to the English crown.
Ay, the bolting, but you must tarry the leavening.
This is it that makes me bridle passion
Heaven knows how dearly. My next poor petition
That I, dear brother, be now ta'en for you!
The more shame for you, Judas.
I would forgive him, for if he love me to madness, I
The very all of all is,--but, sweet heart, I do
He's coming.
Moy shall not serve; I will have forty moys;
Yes: 'tis Emilia. By and by. She's dead.
What, will you go unto the Tower, my lord?
Desires you to attach his son, who has--
Romeo's a dishclout to him: an eagle, madam,
What shall we do?
A very, very--pajock.
Your fame forever.
I did beget her, all the parish knows:
Of feather'd Cupid seal with wanton dullness
All corners of the world: kings, queens and states,
That, whiles warm life plays in that infant's veins,
You may, then, spare that time.
I like it never the better for that. Does he lie at
And cabby run on in obedience
at the dearest chandler's in Europe. I have
LAERTES wounds HAMLET; then in scuffling, they change rapiers, and HAMLET wounds LAERTES
As you shall deem yourself lodged in my heart,
I hope, sir, you are; and I am yours.
Then crush this herb into Lysander's eye;
this be duly performed; with a thought that more
First Serving-man	Content: I'll to the surgeon's.
Only I yield to die:
That seeks dispatch by day.
No more shall cut his master. Therefore, friends,
And with him are the Lord Aumerle, Lord Salisbury,
To RICHMOND
Were you there?
From all the slaughters, wretch, that thou hast done!
And we will nothing waste till you return.
Pyramus, you begin: when you have spoken your
Bid the music leave,
To credit his own lie, he did believe
I pray you, do not push me; I'll be gone.
I wander from the jewels that I love.
and more strange return.                  'HAMLET.'
O excellent devise! make a sop of him.
Duke Humphrey.
him. He was first smoked by the old lord Lafeu:
They are up already, and call for eggs and butter;
thunderbolt.
With gazing fed; and fancy dies
This is close dealing. Well, I will be there.
Let's step into the shadow of these trees.
scarlet; and when you breathe in your watering, they
With one that wants her wits?
Vilely compiled, profound simplicity.
And name thee in election for the empire,
I'll join mine eldest daughter and my joy
Came to the bar; where to his accusations
The honourable lady of the house, which is she?
You perpetual-sober gods! I do proclaim
I'll give't him.
Thou shalt be lord of it and I'll serve thee.
Come, my old son: I pray God make thee new.
I pray you, upon what?
So long as I could see.
Ay, that I will, come cut and long-tail, under the
With them forgive yourself.
What's he?
When you are gentle, you shall have one too,
Or died where they were made, or shortly after
To thee and thine hereditary ever
That is the true beginning of our end.
and I pray you all go with me.
see but the issue of my jealousy: if I cry out thus
When I shal l dwell with worms, and my poor name
You are deceived, your brother Gloucester hates you.
Thou liest.
Then should not we be tired with this ado.
Where wouldst thou send it?
And furious close of civil butchery
I were best to leave him, for he will not hear.
Down with that sword! Tribunes, withdraw awhile.
To prostitute our past-cure malady
Lord marshal, command our officers at arms
And having lost her breath, she spoke, and panted,
My heart's deep languor and my soul's sad tears:
prosperity! Affliction may one day smile again; and
And so the Earl of Armagnac may do,
His noble kinsman: most degenerate king!
I grant ye.
Your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark.
Les doigts? ma foi, j'oublie les doigts; mais je me
I may avoid him: which of these is he?
one she loves.
Half my love with him, half my care and duty:
'Our Britain s harts die flying, not our men:
Do not you wear your dagger in your cap that day,
AEsculapius? my Galen? my heart of elder? ha! is
Troilus; you shall see anon.
SCENE V. The same.
These words become your lips as they pass
put in the book of virtue!
To OPHELIA
Who hath cause to wet the grief on't.
man and a fool.
That thou mightst join her hand with his
The rich advantage of good exercise?
Hamlet, Hamlet!
Heaven doth truly know it.
Be thou assured, if words be made of breath,
Brutus, a word with you.
About some half-hour hence,
Cunning in music and the mathematics,
And something to be done immediately.
comes not?
Of her that loves him with that excellence
And, kinsmen, then we may go pipe for justice.
Which you, mistaking, offer up to joy.
'Tis France, for England.
His hopeful son's, his babe's, betrays to slander,
May not be punish'd with my thwarting stars,
That should by private order else have died,
For God's sake, let not us two be behind;
My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
There's the moral. Now the l'envoy.
And yet would herein others' eyes were worse.
Election makes not up on such conditions.
And so deliver, I am put to sea
At the queen's be't: 'good' should be pertinent
short daughter.
Have sunk the sea within the earth or ere
O Antony! O thou Arabian bird!
Exit
Without debatement further, more or less,
Why that the naked, poor and mangled Peace,
Why, even in that was heaven ordinant.
My wife can speak no English, I no Welsh.
exceedingly narrowly to thee.
pausing
Fear no more the lightning flash,
away. Wilt thou use thy wit?
Flourish of cornets. Enter PORTIA, with the PRINCE OF MOROCCO, and their trains
And long hereafter say unto his child,
Still climbing trees in the Hesperides?
To mild entreaties, God in heaven forbid
To alter this, for counsel is but vain.
Our hard-ruled king. Again, there is sprung up
they escoted? Will they pursue the quality no
That he was never trained up in arms.
Exeunt Whitmore and others with Suffolk
boldness of my cunning, I will lay myself in hazard.
And 'twere the cheaper way:
And did he search for you, and could not find you?
The household of the king.
Thyself, forsooth, hereafter theirs, so far
Worthy Sebastian? O, what might?--No more:--
I would your grace would give us but an hour
Much attribute he hath, and much the reason
And stain my favours in a bloody mask,
I'll after him, and see the event of this.
Be pitiful, dread lord, and grant it then.
Who is Silvia? what is she,
His grace is at Marseilles; to which place
No, I will weep no more. In such a night
and broke three of his ribs, that there is little
help! I had rather than forty pound I were at home.
What a haste looks through his eyes! So should he look
as I expect my revenge. That part thou, Pisanio,
Exit
himself fears it not from another: let your general
of man's disposition is able to bear.
Then, executioner, unsheathe thy sword:
Ten is the hour that was appointed me
become of the wenching rogues? I think they have
brought to pass under the profession of
Have done, have done; here comes the gentleman.
A woman impudent and mannish grown
But with thy brawls thou hast disturb'd our sport.
As you would beg, were you in my distress
I shall no leading need.
They talk apart
Did not you speak?
This moral ties me over to time and a hot summer;
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
great fire; and the master I speak of ever keeps a
Now no discourse, except it be of love;
taste again but by the displanting of Cassio. So
SCENE II. Before LEONTES' palace.
Then both, or one, or any thing thou wilt.
To wish it back on you: fare you well Jessica.
Brave followers, yonder stands the thorny wood,
All gold and silver rather turn to dirt!
highways out of all sanctified limit, as a desperate
SCENE II. France. Before Rouen.
Lord Thaliard from Antiochus is welcome.
I suffer for the truth, sir; for true it is, I was
By heavens, I'll go:
He was my master; and I wore my life
My name is Constance; I was Geffrey's wife;
Forced in the ruthless, vast, and gloomy woods? See, see!
humble-bee on the top of a thistle; and, good
Your niece regards me with an eye of favour.
My lord: he doth entreat your grace;
That call'd me timelier than my purpose hither;
In every power that moves.
Contenteth me, and worth a monarchy.
The QUEEN drops the box: PISANIO takes it up
Out of appearance?
Let it not enter in your mind of love:
But, though I loved you well, I woo'd you not;
money in thy purse. These Moors are changeable in
You are a churchman, or, I'll tell you, cardinal,
Stay, murderous villains! will you kill your brother?
O most dear mistress,
If you should tender your supposed aid,
themselves, till they attain to their abhorred ends,
Follow me, sirs, and my proceedings eye:
We should have both lord and lown, if the peevish
The terms of our estate may not endure
The housekeeper, the hunter, every one
Shall in these confines with a monarch's voice
Till I be brought to such a silly pass!
The pine and cedar: graves at my command
conscience, la!
Tellest thou me of 'ifs'?  Thou art a traitor:
How now, ambitious Humphry! what means this?
The queen, madam,
What three things does drink especially provoke?
That waits upon your grace?
What figure?
Now are they come.
I'll set her on;
Ripe for exploits and mighty enterprises.
gentle a condition!
Once more to hew thy target from thy brawn,
As 'tis reported, for the king had married him
Even at the heels in golden multitudes.
My Lord Pandarus; honey-sweet lord,--
What thou dost know of noble Gloucester's death,
Rates and revenges.
England! Farewell, dear mother.
But, fearing since how it might work, hath sent
We sucking on her natural bosom find,
That thou couldst see my wars to-day, and knew'st
But with her most vile principal, that she's
I will be sure my Katharina shall be fine.
My lord, I will use them according to their desert.
When she was young you woo'd her; now in age
Under Cominius.
Walks and whispers
encounter such ridiculous subjects as you are. When
As I subscribe not that, nor any other,
Holla the other.
O, my sweet beef, I must still be good angel to
I will wage against your gold, gold to it: my ring
Which will not prove a whip: as many coxcombs
go on the right hand: I will but look upon the
Now he'll outstare the lightning. To be furious,
Dance
And wolves are gnarling who shall gnaw thee first.
The one my duty owes; but my fair name,
'Good den, sir Richard!'--'God-a-mercy, fellow!'--
Then give me leave to have prerogative;
which you hear him so confidently undertake to do.
Be you content: good Cinna, take this paper,
Without all terms of pity. Speak; thine answer.
sceptre for a leaden dagger, and thy precious rich
he might know none of his secrets: now do I see he
The south-fog rot him!
Me, wretch more worth your vengeance. But, alack,
By your patience, Aunchient Pistol. Fortune is
Either for such men or such business.
Peace!
concavities of it is not sufficient; for, look you,
Cousins, you know what you have to do. O, I cry you
Exeunt COSTARD and JAQUENETTA
And wilt thou pluck my fair son from mine age,
I will go before, sir. Mistress, look out at
Away with him, I say! hang him with his pen and
to dine and sup with water and bran; I dare not for
Tells Harry that the king doth offer him
And for his sake wear the detested blot
Should in their own confines with forked heads
How shall that faith return again to earth,
I will lay you ten thousand ducats to your ring,
that thou wilt not be drunk; but I know thou art no
Most strange!
With mistful eyes, or they will issue too.
To make a recordation to my soul
Kin to Jove's thunder, so surprised my sense.
Rain'd from the wounds of slaughter'd Englishmen:
Speak to Mistress Page.
I will repeat them,--a, e, i,--
How long is't since?
Bring in thy ranks, but leave without thy rage:
I humbly thank you; well, well, well.
From Ravenspurgh haven before the gates of York,
O that brave Caesar!
And you must needs have heard, how I am punish'd
Draw, Benvolio; beat down their weapons.
But that the scambling and unquiet time
The strangeness of this business; at pick'd leisure
you: I must discontinue your company: your brother
Perform what you command us.
To rest mistrustful where a noble heart
it makes here: I am unfortunate in the infirmity,
By this so sickened their estates, that never
Our own love waking cries to see what's done,
How, my love!
Upon the dunghill. Regan, I bleed apace:
Lucentio, 'hic est,' son unto Vincentio of Pisa,
Take thou no care; it shall be heeded.
To GONERIL
Because in York this breeds suspicion:
I shall not need transport my words by you;
Pray you, sir, stand up: I am sure you are not
tall fellow of thy hands and that thou wilt be
He lies before me: dost thou understand me?
Is come with a great power to raise the siege.
Figures pedantical; these summer-flies
A style for-challengers; why, she defies me,
now with, 'knocking at the gate'?
Seeking the food he eats
To speak my mind of him: and indeed this day,
Now let it work. Mischief, thou art afoot,
'Tis a derivative from me to mine,
wont to lend money for a Christian courtesy; let him
The instant burst of clamour that she made,
That bears the name of life? Yet in this life
What will Biron say when that he shall hear
And in these fits I leave them, while I visit
warrant, her rags and the tallow in them will burn a
You're servant to the Count Orsino, youth.
I am as true as truth's simplicity
Her infinite cunning, with her modern grace,
Take up the rays o' the beneficial sun
Peace and prosperity! Who is't that calls
Who should against his murderer shut the door,
To a rope's-end, sir; and to that end am I returned.
Dismiss them home.
Purchase corrupted pardon of a man,
That mint.
My niece is horribly in love with a thing you have,
A foolish suitor to a wedded lady,
Words without thoughts never to heaven go.
SCENE II. The same. Court of Pandarus' house.
What's her name in the cap?
Colour her working with such deadly wounds;
crowned with your enjoying her. Adieu. You shall
None, sir; I have no pheasant, cock nor hen.
And all the embossed sores and headed evils,
Death is my son-in-law, Death is my heir;
I Know her women are about her: what
Full well shalt thou perceive how much I dare.
Why, madam?
Ha, banishment! be merciful, say 'death;'
For bearing arms, for stirring up my subjects,
The cardinal's and Sir Thomas Lovell's heads
Where is the horse that doth untread again
Return the precedent to these lords again;
'When from my finger you can get this ring
Speak to me what thou art.
And make the Douglas' son your only mean
You teach me how a beggar should be answer'd.
By thy approach thou makest me most unhappy.
Hark! Peace!
Yet thou liest in the bleak air: come, I will bear
O diable!
Bore the commission of my place and person;
I have cursed them without cause.
blowers up! Is there no military policy, how
would sleep till I waked him, you should half his
Threw him ashore, to give him glad:
be Launcelot, thou art mine own flesh and blood.
I would always have one play but one thing.
'Tis very true.
this slaughter: besides, they have burned and
Did not thy hue bewray whose brat thou art,
And let her head fall into England's lap.
I'll die for't but some woman had the ring.
That took some pains in writing, he begg'd mine;
Set less than thou throwest;
The good and bad together: he's friends with Caesar:
What's that, I pray?
My resolution's placed, and I have nothing
The one, to save the money that he spends in
itself ten, which is a goodly increase; and the
And dead men's cries do fill the empty air,
Nay, you need not to stop your nose, sir; I spake
But here is Carlisle living, to abide
Let's hew his limbs till they be clean consumed.
O, Glendower.
to see thee well. Welcome, good friends. O, my old
Ay, that Petruchio came.
Is general woe.
My lord, they say five moons were seen to-night;
great opposer, Coriolanus, being now in no request
No more but so?
Dispute not that: York is the worthier.
See see, my beauty will be saved by merit!
Now let hot AEtna cool in Sicily,
Possess'd with such a gentle sovereign grace,
What is his name?
And not be seen to wink of all the day--
Enter PROSPERO and MIRANDA
Drag hence her husband to some secret hole,
And thou, brave Oxford, wondrous well beloved,
You heavenly guards! What would your gracious figure?
That he did pace them first? All things that are,
What, canst not rule her?
But to support him after. Fare you well.
Why, what a wasp-stung and impatient fool
broke bread: we had an hour's talk of that wart. I
blessing, to breed me well: and there begins my
God amend us, God amend! we are much out o' the way.
Banish the canker of ambitious thoughts.
Exeunt Arragon and train
to me 'My honest friend Launcelot, being an honest
I'll turn my part thereof into thy throat.
Which served me as fit, by all men's judgments,
Music
But when from under this terrestrial ball
I must go seek some dewdrops here
I'll wake mine eye-balls blind first.
Than so much loss of time.
SCENE IV. Wales: before the cave of Belarius.
Dear sovereign, hear me speak.
To lose his head; condemn'd by Angelo:
And he knew my deceased father well.
She makes our profession as it were to stink afore
That way, I'll this,--he that first lights on him
Buckingham, I prithee, pardon me,
How now, you secret, black, and midnight hags!
merry. Now, good Peter Quince, call forth your
The gods forbid!
ears. I have served him from the hour of my
Bless our poor virginity from underminers and
On whom it will not, so; yet still 'tis just.
I thought your marriage fit; else imputation,
Ha, you gods! why this? what this, you gods? Why, this
To the latter end of a fray and the beginning of a feast
She must lie here on mere necessity.
Well, follow me, my masters, you shall have your
To tame a shrew and charm her chattering tongue.
Which else would put you to your fortune and
Exit. Knocking within
Is the king dead? the empire unpossess'd?
A million more, now lost,--she, Eros, has
Old fools are babes again; and must be used
How! away!
He's worth no more
before ever he saw those pancakes or that mustard.
How now! where's that mongrel?
Such an immodest raiment, if shame live
peacock's feather. You'll never trust his word
His taken labours bid him me forgive;
SCENE V. Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace.
Were he the butcher of my son, he should
For that's the golden mark I seek to hit:
And, ere I part with thee, confer at large
fifteen hundred paces of your tents.
The church! where is it? Had not churchmen pray'd,
Ready, sir; but his will hath in it a more modest working.
This is good news:
Think what thou wilt, I am thy lover's grace;
To be thus taunted, scorn'd, and baited at:
To business that we love we rise betime,
O, 'tis the spite of hell, the fiend's arch-mock,
I'll tell you in your ear.
tempered as mine is to thee.
As to have ask'd him pardon. Let this fellow
I will be deaf to pleading and excuses;
In fellest manner execute your aims.
And here I stand, both to impeach and purge
They have a leader,
Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple
Blood and destruction shall be so in use
And stand betwixt two churchmen, good my lord;
Anon his Thisbe must be answered,
As notes whose faculties inclusive were
Plantagenet doth quit Plantagenet.
which I will be ever to pay and yet pay still.
Stands aside
Quarrel no more, but be prepared to know
My sons would never so dishonour me:
Behold another day break in the east:
Your royal presences be ruled by me:
With all the gracious utterance thou hast
Why, but he is not in this tune, is he?
Thy counsel, lad, smells of no cowardice,
SCENE III. Woods and cave, near the seashore.
What, I! I love! I sue! I seek a wife!
If I do find it: well.
to make one there.
Lucilius' Servant	And Sir Philotus too!
him, to be truly touched with love: if he be sad,
Without sweat or endeavour: treason, felony,
That smooth'st it so with king and commonweal!
Give him as much as will make him a royal man, and
Stern Falconbridge commands the narrow seas;
Dissentious numbers pestering streets than see
Be happy that my arms are out of use:
As punishment for his most wicked life.
Art thou proud yet?
Enter GRATIANO
Noble lords,
Where your majesty demands, that the King of France,
Walk half an hour, Leonine, at the least:
Away, my disposition, and possess me
me in capite; and we charge and command that their
Glamis thou art, and Cawdor; and shalt be
I tender my commission; by whose virtue,
not heard of the proclamation, have you?
Exeunt Lords
with vanity. I would to God thou and I knew where a
Dispose of you.
Who, impotent and bed-rid, scarcely hears
[To TRANIO]  Signior Lucentio, this is the
Ties up my tongue, and will not let me speak.
Three words, dear Romeo, and good night indeed.
godheads to borrow of men, men would forsake the
God bless him!
Exit
Joy'd are we that you are.
Enter CYMBELINE and Lords
O, let me look!
That might relieve you!
He, in good time, must his lieutenant be,
O that I thought it could be in a woman--
followed the arts!
When my indispos ition put you back:
That if you now beheld them, your affections
The banquet brought in
By any desperate change: my more particular,
Exeunt
them ill-favouredly.
hearer: that great baby you see there is not yet
Of Costard.
But with my breath I can revive it, boy.
Heaviness in me.
Marry, that can Hero;
As in these cases, where the aim reports,
That chase thee from thy country and expose
Did ever love so dearly: let her live
the beggarly thanks. Come, sing; and you that will
Of such misery doth she cut me off.
With the plebeians swarming at their heels,
Shall so wear out to nought. Dost thou know me?
But, for the handkerchief,--
And yet my sky shall not want.
Who did strike out the light?
scruple of a scruple, no obstacle, no incredulous
Abused extremely, and to cry 'That's witty!'
And would you not do much to do them good?
In hollow bones of man; strike their sharp shins,
ACT V
Ye blew the fire that burns ye: now have at ye!
Peace, children, peace! the king doth love you well:
Ay, my good lord.
Let 'em alone, and draw the curtain close:
They had begun the play--I sat me down,
All murder'd: for within the hollow crown
listening. Now I begin: Imprimis, we came down a
A parlous knock; and it cried bitterly:
Have here deliver'd me to my sour cross,
For they are thrifty honest men, and such
And when I send for you, come hither mask'd.
It did always seem so to us: but now, in the
O royal Caesar!
[Aside]  Amen; and make me die a good old man!
he tell us his noble deeds, we must also tell him
When I protest true loyalty to her,
Make thy words faith'd? No: what I should deny,--
crack of your love shall grow stronger than it was before.
fingers goes not with me.
There's blood on thy face.
commodities upon our bills?
she, that this house, if it be not a bawd's house,
To quench mine honour: they would shame to make me
But always hath been just and virtuous
At Grecian sword, contemning. Tell Valeria,
So fill'd and so becoming: in pure white robes,
'Tis well there's one above 'em yet. I had thought
What, are you both pleased?
[Awaking]  O Helena, goddess, nymph, perfect, divine!
Commit them to the fortune of the sea.
They have been absent: 'tis good speed; foretells
The least of all these signs were probable.
I'll call for pen and ink, and write my mind.
And make the meanest of you earls and dukes?
I begin to love him for this.
More harder than the stones whereof 'tis raised;
I chose her when I could not ask my father
Lay on my bed my wedding sheets: remember;
Here comes the lord.
Their clearer reason. O good Gonzalo,
deal with poison; I will possess him with
Whither wilt thou have me?
passion of wonder appeared in them; but the wisest
Enter Boy
Glancing an eye of pity on his losses,
Well, I will meet you, so I may have good cheer.
And when I rear my hand, do you the like,
In such a just and charitable war.
so near with their lips that their breaths embraced
By giving love your sorrow and my grief
I do say thou art quick in answers: thou heatest my blood.
And his enforcement of the city wives;
My tales of love were wont to weary you;
And feebling such as stand not in their liking
Re-enter ARIEL, driving in CALIBAN, STEPHANO and TRINCULO, in their stolen apparel
in the heart of the world, and especially of my own
But never taint my love. I cannot say 'whore:'
The grey-eyed morn smiles on the frowning night,
Re-enter BERTRAM
There was a' gaming; there o'ertook in's rouse;
This is clean kam.
beauty, can do no more, spoil upon my face: thou
What he hath won, that hath he fortified:
I look'd not for you yet, nor am provided
That we find out the cause of this effect,
and honourable personages than the commission of your
That were the cause of my imprisonment.
That thou respect'st not spilling Edward's blood:
More hath he spent in peace than they in wars.
the Garter?
To turn and wind a fiery Pegasus
Go on, and fetch our horses back again.
Yea, brother of Clarence, are thou here too?
And kill him in the shell.
This day my sister should the cloister enter
Grounded upon no other argument
Yet know, my master, God omnipotent,
We'll pull his plumes and take away his train,
My numbers lessened, and those few I have
Go; and we'll have a posset for't soon at night, in
Or bend one wrinkle on my sovereign's face.
We have beat him to his camp: run one before,
I would to heaven he were!
Avoid then, fiend! what tell'st thou me of supping?
Hark, boy! what noise is that?
We have been too slight in sufferance.
But me and mine: how happy art thou, then,
And tarry for the comfort of the day.
About what?
Now boast thee, death, in thy possession lies
What sayest thou, Jack?
That every stride he makes upon my land
Too rude, too boisterous, and it pricks like thorn.
Or than for strength and safety of our country.
Sunshine and rain at once: her smiles and tears
him their examination.
Which thou thyself hast given her woful breast.
May you stead me? will you pleasure me? shall I
Now is my day's work done; I'll take good breath:
Master Malvolio?
[Within]  Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!
Sir, those cold ways,
He was much famed.
Thou art no Atlas for so great a weight:
Though I look old, yet I am strong and lusty;
But heaven hath a hand in these events,
For fear their colours should be wash'd away.
Confer with me of murder and of death:
He's dead; and at the murderer's horse's tail,
Come hither, gracious sovereign, view this body.
Have laid most heavy hand.
More witnesseth than fancy's images
And I am sent expressly to your lordship.
The nine men's morris is fill'd up with mud,
And Humphrey with the peers be fall'n at jars:
And we'll not fail. When Duncan is asleep--
Like egg-shells moved upon their surges, crack'd
Enter MACBETH and BANQUO
And he and his competitors in oath
See how he fares.
Send your trunk to me; it shall safe be kept,
Ran in my veins, I was a gentleman;
The conqueror is dismay'd. Proceed, good Alexander.
sanctuary; and people sin upon purpose, because they
Nay, I knew by his face that there was something in
do not doubt but to hear them say, it is a sweet
And turn his merry note
Who knocks so hard? whence come you? what's your will?
to the person written unto: 'Your ladyship's in all
So, by your circumstance, you call me fool.
That Anne my wife is sick and like to die:
But are you flesh and blood?
offered it to him again; then he put it by again:
Good morrow, gentle mistress: where away?
thank you: and sure, dear friends, my thanks are
Say, lord chamberlain,
Ascend his throne, descending now from him;
of me, he shall never make me such a fool. One woman
But, failing of her end by his strange absence,
gowns, petticoats, nor caps, nor any petty
I'll have my bond; and therefore speak no more.
shall hear more by midnight.
Though you and all the kings of Christendom
instrument. Now, sweet queen.
For yet ere supper-time must I perform
What, the fair Ophelia!
But 'tis not so.
With shouts and clamours.
lost by nature.
make thee a pair; and I'll bring thee to the court myself.
For valour, is not Love a Hercules,
So his familiars to his buried fortunes
O, if thou grant my need,
Enter LUCIANUS
Which sounded like a clamour in a vault,
Ah, sirrah, by my fay, it waxes late:
He for his father's sake so loves the prince,
She hath that ring of yours.
Could send such message to their sovereign:
I am happily come hither.
Hal, if thou see me down in the battle and bestride
But if you ever chance to have a child,
O sir, you are not right: have you not known
Go, some of you, whoe'er you find attach.
You gave me this: but take it, sir, again.
Weigh'd not a hair of his. Plague of your policy!
Ever true in loving be;
Make haste: who has the note of them?
Do not curst wives hold that self-sovereignty
Let every soldier hew him down a bough
That island of England breeds very valiant
Lady, you are the cruell'st she alive,
And it mis-sheathed in my daughter's bosom!
ANTIPHOLUS
A Roman.
Enter another Messenger
Foul-spoken coward, that thunder'st with thy tongue,
Over park, over pale,
O, think my son to be as dear to me!
Your danger's ours.
Go know of Cassio where he supp'd to-night.
How can that be?
Some war with rere-mice for their leathern wings,
With wine and feeding, we have suppler souls
My Lord of Burgundy, we'll take your oath,
And so all yours. O, these naughty times
if you vouchsafe me hearing and respect.
Whiles they behold a greater than themselves,
Exit
O thou, the earthly author of my blood,
'Twas a good lady, 'twas a good lady: we may pick a
And with a silk thread plucks it back again,
She did betray me to my own reproof.
Which would be so much the more dangerous
Is the day so young?
thee. Farewell.
She took the ring of me: I'll none of it.
When least in company. Prosper well in this,
To love and honour Henry as her lord.
Prefix'd for's parting: yet, good deed, Leontes,
Prerogatived are they less than the base;
The liberal opposition of our spirits,
one Deformed: they say be wears a key in his ear and
I pray you, air, as you sit at dinner:
But age, with his stealing steps,
That he would steal away so guilty-like,
No chance may shake it. Give me grace to lay
Not any, but abide the change of time,
her as long as there is a passage in my throat and
should be lewdly given, he deceiveth me; for, Harry,
A woful Cressid 'mongst the merry Greeks!
This afternoon, sir? well, she shall be there.
That, being unseminar'd, thy freer thoughts
be of what colour it please God. Ha! the prince and
The mind that I do! what a sleep were this
Nay, Got's lords and his ladies! you must speak
That once were his, and is become as black
sleep in thy sheath, I beseech God on my knees thou
Let heaven requite it with the serpent's curse!
They stared, and were distracted; no man's life
Which I mistrusted not. Farewell, therefore, Hero!
Exit Vintner
In feather'd briefness sails are fill'd,
O, say so, and so be!
And gave him what becomed love I might,
The man is innocent.
And wherefore I am fled; write to the king
Why brother Rivers, are you yet to learn
Yea, or to-night.
I must indeed; and therefore came I hither.
Destroy'd the sweet'st companion that e'er man
Who sometime, in his better tune, remembers
Till he hath lost his honey and his sting;
Upon thy promising fortune.
Lay couching, head on ground, with catlike watch,
their swords to pawn. Follow me, lads of peace;
Your grace, that fed my country with your corn,
Well, Angelo, your evil quits you well:
But if you have a stomach, to't i' God's name:
Like him by chance. Yet give us our dispatch:
Hourly afflict: merely, thou art death's fool;
Why should she live, to fill the world with words?
SCENE II. Alexandria. A room in the monument.
Of our dominions, and that there thou leave it,
If none of them have soul in such a kind,
Your pleasure, sir?
How are we park'd and bounded in a pale,
Where he abides.
Yet go we under our opinion still
Her countless glory, which desert must gain;
But one ten thousand of those men in England
A wolf, nay, worse, a fellow all in buff;
The good old man would fain that all were well,
Exeunt Executioners
For you to laugh and leap and say you are merry,
My conscience tells me he is lawful king.
And for his meed, poor lord, he is mew'd up.
Do not forget: this visitation
Full suddenly he fled.
Give way to what's seen now! Sir, you yourself
God, for thy mercy! they are loose again.
I shot his fellow of the self-same flight
And I will follow, more for Silvia's love
To every varied object in his glance:
are damned. There is but one hope in it that can do
You know me dutiful; therefore, dear sir,
If Time be in debt and theft, and a sergeant in the way,
When fitness calls them on, and know by measure
You of your wife and me of my consent,
Stood on the extremest verge of the swift brook,
Leave me, I pray, a little: pray you now:
Nose of Turk and Tartar's lips,
That he which finds him shall deserve our thanks,
the tadpole, the wall-newt and the water; that in
Seems more than we shall find it: were it good
Yes, gracious madam.
You heavy people, circle me about,
How now! why look'st thou pale? why tremblest thou?
Let me stay at thine apperil, Timon: I come to
You are--a senator.
Gazes on her
Voiced so regardfully?
Or bid me go into a new-made grave
He was excellent indeed, madam: the king very
cheerful look, a pleasing eye and a most noble
I would not be sir Nob in any case.
'Hic ibat,' as I told you before, 'Simois,' I am
Wonder to wait on treason and on murder:
No, it will hang upon my richest robes
How can that be?
You have no children, butchers! if you had,
Why, they will allow us ne'er a jordan, and then we
court distant from this shore?
These present wars shall find I love my country,
thou layest the plot how.
O Goneril!
Is the obedience to a master, one
Go, Lovel, with all speed to Doctor Shaw;
Given hostile strokes, and that not in the presence
then have we a prescription to die when death is our physician.
To load my she with knacks: I would have ransack'd
A good and virtuous nature may recoil
Well,
[Aside]  To have smelt like a fool.
And Edward Duke of Bar: of lusty earls,
Thoughts high for one so tender, cleft the heart
Dispatch us with all speed, lest that our king
But had he such a chain of thee or no?
Within me is a hell; and there the poison
Refuse not, mighty lord, this proffer'd love.
A precious ring, that lightens all the hole,
And would so, had it been a carbuncle
You must walk by us on our other hand;
beshrew them!
I will, my lord; and doubt not so to deal
My good and gracious Lord of Canterbury.
O thou day o' the world,
Beg of her for remedy.
Men shall deal unadvisedly sometimes,
And vanish'd from our sight.
And Cassius too.
As I took note of the place, it cannot be far where
Exit Regan, led
Myself and Beaufort had him in protection;
And must they all be hanged that swear and lie?
And here commit you to my lord cardinal
cannot abide. How answer you that?
But I'll acquaint our duteous citizens
Of more strong link asunder than can ever
Which, like a waxen image, 'gainst a fire,
That was the way to make his godhead wax,
He is no less than what we say he is.
earth, seems to me a sterile promontory, this most
Those that would die or ere resist are grown
To cut off those that have offended him.
Ay, but thou talk'st as if thou wert a king.
My mother dead!
Must be content to think you old, and so--
To mangle me with that word 'banished'?
Who would not wish to be from wealth exempt,
O thou foul thief, where hast thou stow'd my daughter?
the owner.
He hopes 'bove wisdom, grace and fear:
flesh and blood is not to be punished by him. Show
Do not call it sin in me,
My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
Hast thou not kiss'd thy hand and held my stirrup?
Sir Thurio, give us leave, I pray, awhile;
Go with me: if you like upon report
Avaunt, perplexity! What shall we do,
I know young bloods look for a time of rest.
Extorted treasure in the womb of earth,
Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
England did never owe so sweet a hope,
Both welcome and protection. Take up thy master:
she your jewel, this your jewel, and my gold are
Alas, poor man! a million of beating may come to a
Enter CORIOLANUS, marching with drum and colours; commoners being with him
Behold the ordnance on their carriages,
More moving-delicate and full of life,
pinched with the colic, you make faces like
If you'll go fetch him,
Then have I kept it to a worthy end.
the weaker vessel, as doublet and hose ought to show
Dying with mother's dug between its lips:
shepherd, which stands by like a weather-bitten
And from the powdering tub of infamy
For you serve knaves.
Ay, good fool.
Go, bid them prepare.
So fearful were they of infection.
As the honey of Hybla, my old lad of the castle. And
It is a dropsied honour. Good alone
Et le coude?
I do not seek to quench your love's hot fire,
O, none so welcome.
Ay, that there is. Our court, you know, is haunted
As't please your lordship: I'll leave you.
As will displease you. My Lord Northumberland,
Hold here, take this: tell gentle Jessica
The sixth was Thomas of Woodstock, Duke of Gloucester;
What is the business?
Who should express her goodliest. You have seen
Exeunt
How now! where's your master?
And yet I would I had o'erlooked the letter:
As I shall find the time to friend, I will.
O my brother,
Tush! never tell me; I take it much unkindly
Since it hath been beforehand with our griefs.
that should water this sorrow.
Why the devil,
Were of an age: well, Susan is with God;
He dares not come there for the candle; for, you
I must dance bare-foot on her wedding day
You're an odd man; give even or give none.
Is his complexion; and faster than his tongue
nothing still.
O, yes, I heard them all, and more too; for some of
Hath follow'd certain men unto this house.
Amongst a grove, the very straightest plant;
Are you in earnest, sir?
'Twere better she were kiss'd in general.
Bear a fair presence, though your heart be tainted;
And hung their rotten coffins up in chains,
'He that thou knowest thine, HAMLET.'
In my bedchamber.
Despise me, when I break this oath of mine.
And now I have the boy, I will undo
Basting.
it, of you and rosemary, that it would do you good
That's soon perform'd, because I am a subject.
My sovereign, with the loving citizens,
O, where is Romeo? saw you him to-day?
Than ever at one time the clergy yet
Whose eye beck'd forth my wars, and call'd them home;
She's a beagle, true-bred, and one that adores me:
Nor did you nothing hear?
Doth turn oh! oh! to ha! ha! he!
Into her womb convey sterility!
Is turn'd to folly, blasting in the bud,
You tell me true.
Till death be uttered,
SCENE I. A room in POLONIUS' house.
Your pleasure be fulfill'd!
Enter AUFIDIUS and his Lieutenant
And I will purge thy mortal grossness so
ducks i' the river: go to, go to.
'Tis a spell, you see, of much  power: you know the
Must have their voices; neither will they bate
Exit
Where, if you bring not Marcius, we'll proceed
Do so. Go tell thy master I am alone.
Exeunt DUCHESS and other prisoners, guarded
Still question'd me the story of my life,
spoken; I have locked the letter in my closet:
O, would the king, Biron, and Longaville,
Merry and tragical! tedious and brief!
And that your grace hath screen'd and stood between
kingdom with a dagger of lath, and drive all thy
Pray, do not mock me:
And know it now: the senate have concluded
County Anselme and his beauteous sisters; the lady
Go you and enter Harfleur; there remain,
He was paid for that: though mean and
Think you I can a resolution fetch
The mortal worm might make the sleep eternal;
You wish'd us parties, we'll deliver you
Forbear your conference with the noble duke.
He is their god: he leads them like a thing
pretty encounters, press it to death: away!
When she shall lack it.
How!
Thanks, you the valiant of this warlike isle,
let it cool the while. I love Benedick well; and I
Hold out this tempest. Bear away that child
Will live as maids and widows. Come, away!
And blindfold death not let me see my son.
Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
Good Lord, for alliance! Thus goes every one to the
Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
Or hath mine uncle Beaufort and myself,
Yet do I hold it very stuff o' the conscience
I would they were barbarians--as they are,
Do, Paulina;
I reason'd with a Frenchman yesterday,
That prosperously I have attempted and
What would you have me do?
In what manner?
How do you, Cassio? O, a chair, a chair!
From this most bravest vessel of the world
Why dost thou whet thy knife so earnestly?
We will not look upon him: go with us.
Be thou revenged on men, and let me live.
A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
that every braggart shall be found an ass.
To that I'll speak, to that I'll sigh and weep:
Shall we well meet them; that way are they coming.
Will you hear me, Roderigo?
ACT III
That drive thee from the sportive court, where thou
Her hair, what colour?
What fool hath added water to the sea,
A witch, a quean, an old cozening quean! Have I not
Exeunt APEMANTUS and Fool
Enter the ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY, and the BISHOP OF ELY
The power to cancel his captivity.
Were he my brother, nay, my kingdom's heir,
Thou wilt prove his. Take him to prison, officer:
A foe to the public weal: obey, I charge thee,
My commission
steal as in a castle, cocksure; we have the receipt
and where it would not, I have used my credit.
Stay not, be gone; live, and hereafter say,
Exit
Shylock, the world thinks, and I think so too,
In Troy, there lies the scene. From isles of Greece
wrong side may be turned outward!
Her part, poor soul! seeming as burdened
Be lion-mettled, proud; and take no care
ANTIPHOLUS
Fast to the chair: be heedful: hence, and watch.
And since you know you cannot see yourself
To merchants, our well-dealing countrymen,
York doth present himself unto your highness.
Which we more hunt for than the grace of God!
Nor feels not what he owes, but by reflection;
eternal. You shall hear I am run away: know it
They brought one Pinch, a hungry lean-faced villain,
O, may diseases only work upon't!
sluttishness may come hereafter. But be it as it may
the world, in the disciplines of the pristine wars
Insulting Charles! hast thou by secret means
As Agamemnon and the hand of Greece
Enter COSTARD, for Pompey
I am amazed with matter.
Let's see once more this saying graved in gold
Is Edward your true king? for I were loath
O gracious duke,
He has no children. All my pretty ones?
not tell you on compulsion. Give you a reason on
The wronged Duke of Milan, Prospero:
Exeunt from the walls
Unto thy value I will mount myself
Exit
Pride, haughtiness, opinion and disdain:
Enter two Soldiers to their guard
Of our own power: what think you of it?
your eyes so fast?
To keep his daughter company; whose loves
You, that have turn'd off a first so noble wife,
Which forced marriage would have brought upon her.
O, no, forbear! for that which we have fled
her.
For me, most wretched, to perform the like.
Rugby, my rapier!
Exeunt
And my imaginations are as foul
Shall ne'er look back, ne'er ebb to humble love,
Against my power; thrice from the banks of Wye
Thou makest the triumviry, the corner-cap of society,
This ignorant present, and I feel now
That joineth Rouen unto her countrymen,
me! You would play upon me; you would seem to know
Of six preceding ancestors, that gem,
With what?
That I may know the let, why gentle Peace
To those that, without heed, do plunge into 't.
A flourish. Cornets. Enter TULLUS AUFIDIUS, bloody, with two or three Soldiers
vill kill de Jack priest; and I have appointed mine
A peaceful progress to the ocean.
To DUKE OF AUMERLE
Ah, where's my man? give me some aqua vitae:
As you, Lord Angelo, have still appear'd,
Look you, these are the stops.
Fie, fie! no thought of him:
Little are we beholding to your love,
wooing, nor her sudden consenting; but say with me,
Leaving them but the shales and husks of men.
solemnity, her brother Frederick was wrecked at sea,
And they can well on horseback: but this gallant
Let him alone, or so many so minded,
But saying o'er what I have said before:
The foulness is the punishment. I presume
You have not been a-bed, then?
The hind that would be mated by the lion
A knave; a rascal; an eater of broken meats; a
That I should love a bright particular star
Is strict in his arrest--O, I could tell you--
Caesar?
I'll make a peace between your soul and you.
so; if not, let him enter: if I become not a cart
This is, to give a dog, and in recompense desire my
I' the eyes of heaven and to you; I mean,
The proclamation!
Who saw Cesario, ho?
In the brave squares of war: yet now--No matter.
We are blessed in the change.
And, like the devil, from his very arm
Without his top? The ruin speaks that sometime
Will this hold, think you?
O, wither'd is the garland of the war,
Pray now, sit down.
If this fellow be wise, he'll never call ye Jack
The Earl of Wiltshire is already there.
very gallantly maintained the pridge: the French is
I do refuse you for my judge; and here,
Into your favour.
For the which, as I told you, Antonio shall be bound.
Do not I know you for a favourer
They draw and fight
Indeed, it is a strange-disposed time:
Alas, good lady!
Of better deeds to-morrow. Rest you happy!
Neighing in likeness of a filly foal:
What cannot be preserved when fortune takes
Ay, marry, what is he?
Change it, change it;
Enter GLOUCESTER, solus
Christian burial.
That lord whose hand must take my plight shall carry
speak, my fair, and fairly, I pray thee.
Come down, and welcome me to this world's light;
I cannot believe that in her; she's full of
leopard: wert thou a leopard, thou wert german to
The same indeed; a very valiant fellow.
Before I drew this gallant head of war,
To view the field in safety and dispose
Who is sweet Fortune's minion and her pride:
After them! nay, before them, if we can.
Your uncle must not know but you are dead;
My eye's too quick, my heart o'erweens too much,
Know you the man?
And what is in't, the never-surfeited sea
stand for his place. He received in the repulse of
As being well content with that alone.
And yonder, Caesar.
and bare, too beggarly.
His cloister'd flight, ere to black Hecate's summons
guests: thou shalt find me tractable to any honest
And when the cross blue lightning seem'd to open
--with your sun-beamed eyes--
Whither should I fly?
Les ongles? nous les appelons de nails.
And is that paper nothing?
Approach, my Ariel, come.
And all the rest look like a chidden train:
grieves me; and the spirit of my father, which I
Grandam, one night, as we did sit at supper,
And what does else want credit, come to me,
Shall these enjoy our lands?  lie with our wives?
Exit with Officers
Than wots the miller of; and easy it is
For me, my lords,
Thou never comest unto a happy birth,
[To the Fool]  Why, how now, captain! what do you
Fie, brother! how the world is changed with you!
May hang upon your hardness: therefore hear us.
For hands, to do Rome service, are but vain.
We made each other but so late ago.
It useth an enforced ceremony.
Where Love is throned.
Devouring pestilence hangs in our air
They had such courage and audacity?
I never did her hurt in all my life:
This is a strange thing as e'er I look'd on.
Once to behold with your sun-beamed eyes,
For terror, not to use, in time the rod
Upon this land a thousand thousand blessings,
That frights the maidens of the villagery;
mayst be turned to hobnails.
Have found the ground of study's excellence
Exit ROMEO
By him that made me, I'll maintain my words
Nay, more, an enemy unto you all,
Ay, and laying autumn's dust.
Yes, he is worthy of thee, and to pay thee for thy
Your potent and infectious fevers heap
unruly boys.
It appears so by the story.
Here's Decius Brutus, he shall tell them so.
And Brutus is an honourable man.
Mend him who can: the ladies call him sweet;
Ay, by any means prove a tall fellow: if I do not
thinks scorn,
I will not trouble thee, my child; farewell:
Sir,
Retain that dear perfection which he owes
Lonely, apart. But here it is: prepare
SCENE III. The palace.
Weary and old with service, to the mercy
put me down. Methinks sometimes I have no more wit
Exit
Yes, Caliban her son.
Happily, amen!
guest-cavaleire?
But Timon's silver treads upon his lip;
Dare you presume to harbour wanton lines?
To take advantage of the absent time
And there I see such black and grained spots
On either hand thee there are squadrons pitch'd,
thy Harry's company, banish not him thy Harry's
Nor wittingly have I infringed my vow.
She dreams of him that has forgot her love;
Nor can we lie distinguish'd by our faces
Enter MARGARELON
be strange, stout, in yellow stockings, and
The head and he shall louse;
she's noted.
But that he sees the Romans are but sheep:
Because here is a man accused of treason:
Here's the commission: read it at more leisure.
[Reads]  'With a trunk sleeve:'
Enter AENEAS
See'st thou this sweet sight?
Faith, niece, you tax Signior Benedick too much;
Foul shame upon you! you have all moved mine.
From Scotland am I stol'n, even of pure love,
I promise thee.
I am sorry
But Tuesday night last gone in's garden-house
The rather for I now must make you know
Their several virtues and effects.
Well, do it, and be brief; I will walk by:
should; he cannot creep into a halfpenny purse,
it will; if he shake his tail and say nothing, it will.
For such is a friend now; treacherous man!
marry, yet 'tis a withered pear: will you anything with it?
No, sir, I warrant you.
I'll be damned for never a king's son in
If good, why do I yield to that suggestion
Kissing her
And from his holiness use all your power
thy discreet heart think it. Her eye must be fed;
Come, soldiers, show what cruelty ye can,
To trust the opportunity of night
What, art thou angry, Pandarus? what, with me?
No, but brown.
You mistake; the musician likes me not.
Why, now thou hast unwish'd five thousand men;
The duke's in us; and we will hear you speak:
Of English Henry, shall this night appear
Exit Servants
How far hence is thy lord, mine honest fellow?
From courtly friends, with camping foes to live,
But graciously to know I am no better.
Aufidius, though I cannot make true wars,
Ay, sir, by Mistress Overdone's means: but as she
'Tis not a time
John de la Car, my chaplain, a choice hour
His dews fall every where.
For Venus smiles not in a house of tears.
Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
And charge that no man should disturb your rest
Solemn music
Why?
O, let us have him, for his silver hairs
thought she was a woman and was turned into a cold
The numbers of our host and make discovery
But I have cause to pry into this pedant:
'Tis known before; our preparation stands
The foolish Fates.
Nor none can know, Leonine being gone.
Rating myself at nothing, you shall see
If they shall fail, I, with mine enemies,
If that be all, masters, I hear no harm.
Thou art a proud traitor, priest.
And speak as loud as Mars. By Jupiter,
Yon knight doth sit too melancholy,
The way of our profession is against it:
On the white wonder of dear Juliet's hand
Ay.
I hear none, madam.
matched, unless the devil himself turn Jew.
Good my lord, enter here.
The royal occupation! thou shouldst see
A grave.
The number of the king exceedeth ours:
A lying trophy, and as oft is dumb
The carriage of his chafe.
Those,--for their parents were exceeding poor,--
How stands your disposition to be married?
But not with such familiar instances,
Pale in her anger, washes all the air,
Not on thy sole, but on thy soul, harsh Jew,
SCENE VII. A tent in the French camp. LEAR on a bed asleep,
And hath shipped me intil the land,
And gave you such a masterly report
Would 'twere so!
England and France might, through their amity,
Directly interest: mark what Jacob did.
O miserable lady! But, for me,
Why, what a brood of traitors have we here!
Let all untruths stand by thy stained name,
My wife must move for Cassio to her mistress;
Both are my kinsmen, and I love them both:
Do so: I'll not be by.
her upon the form, and taken following her into the
Ay, by and by;
And, for thou wast a spirit too delicate
Yet I have a trick
So, in the famous ancient city, Tours,
But smother'd it within my panting bulk,
The best-condition'd and unwearied spirit
Frozen almost to death, how he did lap me
the excellency of her honour, that the folly of my
is love a generation of vipers? Sweet lord, who's
If she come in, she'll sure speak to my wife:
Led by their master to the flowered fields,
Exeunt COMINIUS and MENENIUS
And I'll be bid by thee.
Being lass-lorn: thy pole-clipt vineyard;
To bring this matter to the wished end.
Ay, that would be known. To the wars, my boy, to the wars!
A parcel of their fortunes; and things outward
It is but change, Titinius; for Octavius
What is become of her.
When men revolted shall upon record
And makes me poor indeed.
By fishermen of Corinth, as we thought.
And bakes the elflocks in foul sluttish hairs,
Of your philosophy you make no use,
Which end o' the beam should bow. We have lost your
You leer upon me, do you? there's an eye
Coriolanus in Corioli?
And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
Where is the best and safest passage in?
I'll put a girdle round about the earth
pale.--I tell you yet again, Banquo's buried; he
have my music for nothing.
Thou mayst bereave him of his wits with wonder.
This fellow's of exceeding honesty,
Why, I have eat none yet.
Why, I am sorry for thee, gentle Silvius.
Madam, you wander from the good we aim at.
Upon my head they placed a fruitless crown,
That at his will he may do danger with.
I am informed thoroughly of the cause.
Obey and be attentive. Canst thou remember
As I for praise alone now seek to spill
As he had been incorpsed and demi-natured
O,--As true as truest horse, that yet would
Read o'er this paper while the glass doth come.
meant, Captain Macmorris, peradventure I shall think
I, Daedalus; my poor boy, Icarus;
Good den, brother.
That right in peace which here we urge in war,
I'll cavil on the ninth part of a hair.
Softly and swiftly, sir; for the priest is ready.
Weighing the youthful season of the year.
should purchase the day before for a little part,
'Sicinius!' 'Brutus!' 'Coriolanus!' 'Citizens!'
I pray, desire her call her wisdom to her.
He hail'd down oaths that he was only mine;
Therefore delay not, give thy hand to Warwick;
Enter JUNO
And is it true that I must go from Troy?
This hateful imperfection of her eyes:
Down with him, thief!
You are as well provided of both as any prince in the world.
Who else would soar above the view of men
Some Roman courtezan.
As theirs, so mine; and all be as it is.
Born out of your dominions; having here
And listen after Humphrey, how he proceeds:
In Ross and Willoughby, wanting your company,
ANTIPHOLUS
like 'em: I could wish my best friend at such a feast.
That so the shadows be not unappeased,
You have but jested with me all this while:
That Angelo's forsworn; is it not strange?
O heavens! is't possible, a young maid's wits
You had rather be at a breakfast of enemies than a
Our party may well meet a prouder foe.
We follow'd then our lord, our lawful king:
Ay, and the particular confirmations, point from
I have a little yet to say. Look there, my lords;
It cannot fail but by
Will leave us never an understanding friend.
To speak your bosom freely.
it, should dishearten his army.
Exit Servant with PETER
Hath kill'd the flock of all affections else
For sauciness. I pray you, let us hence,
Bardolph, if your majesty know the man: his face is
hungry that if I might have a lease of my life for a
How it doth grieve me that thy head is here!
If that be right which Warwick says is right,
Thou idle dreamer, wherefore didst thou so?
Sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything.
A rout, confusion thick; forthwith they fly
That slaves your ordinance, that will not see
Are in the poorest thing superfluous:
Thou art reverent
O, she misused me past the endurance of a block!
There let them bide until we have devised
Why, that's my dainty Ariel! I shall miss thee:
Therefore, out of thy long-experienced time,
Give your men the charge; we must be brief.
Helenus? no. Yes, he'll fight indifferent well. I
O God of battles! steel my soldiers' hearts;
I will not eat my word, now thou art mine;
Bring us to this sight, and you shall say
I think your lordship is not ignorant
And in the height of this bath, when I was more than
Last in the field, and almost lords of it!
Pursuit would be but vain.
Well then, it now appears you need my help:
He poisons him i' the garden for's estate. His
To shame unvulnerable, and stick i' the wars
Of palisadoes, frontiers, parapets,
How hast thou injured both thyself and us!
And pray God's blessing into thy attempt:
From which awaked, the truth of what we are
ANTIPHOLUS
of a true subject, didst counsel and aid them, for
Tressel and Berkeley, go along with me.
I can, Petruchio, help thee to a wife
as lief have been myself alone.
what says Sir John Sack and Sugar? Jack! how
I do beseech you send for some of them.
And learn to make a body of a limb.
We, having now the best at Barnet field,
The gods make this a happy day to Antony!
Acquire too high a fame when him we serve's away.
Or I my life.
unless you repute yourself such a loser. What, man!
Shows itself pure; he weeps for what is done.
That her old gloves were on, but 'twas her hands:
Why do you bend such solemn brows on me?
'Tis very true.
To lose't or give't away were such perdition
By my knavery, if I had it, then I were; but if you
As all comforts are; most good, most good indeed.
Cuts off more circumstance: they are at hand,
I thank thee, Varrius; thou hast made good haste:
His beastly mind to us, he hath a court
Quiet thy cudgel; thou dost see I eat.
Into two parties, is now conjoined in one,
Is this the fashion in the court of England?
How much more elder art thou than thy looks!
Look, sirs, if you can find the huntsman out
Thought nought too curious, are ready now
Why then, a ladder quaintly made of cords,
Come not in here, nuncle, here's a spirit
learned from my entertainment. What I am, and what I
To Lydia and to Ionia; Whilst--
This cardinal's more haughty than the devil.
By thee to us, and he shall be interr'd
Your hand, my lord.
As ornaments oft do, too dangerous:
All is well yet.
upon the table and says 'God send me no need of
Bow your knees.
The cordial that ye bring a wretched lady,
Enter SOMERSET, with drum and colours
rather he should shrive me than wive me. Come,
What ruins are in me that can be found,
And the strong lance of justice hurtless breaks:
Rough-hew them how we will,--
Rich pearls upon thee.
These tedious old fools!
Thy woes will make them sharp, and pierce like mine.
Give us particulars of thy preservation;
For thou shalt find she will outstrip all praise
I think he is: but a greater soldier than he you wot on.
You have not given him his mother's letter?
Thus says my king; an' if your father's highness
Whom God preserve better than you would wish!--
How fares my lord?
Tortive and errant from his course of growth.
back again.
I swear, 'tis better to be lowly born,
Seeing the body of CLOTEN
How came she by that light?
Where learned you that oath, fool?
A thing, my lord!
Here in this city visiting the sick,
She is going, wench: pray, pray.
Enter LORD STANLEY
his urinals about his knave's costard when I have
What pleasure, sir, find we in life, to lock it
Thus Eleanor's pride dies in her youngest days.
A very superficial, ignorant, unweighing fellow.
But that the next heir should succeed and reign.
Seeing you coming.
Did never meddle with my thoughts.
What was your dream? I long to hear you tell it.
She writes so to you, doth she?
Get you to your lord;
I prithee, good Prince Hal, help me to my horse,
Well, sir, what answer made the belly?
There is more difference between thy flesh and hers
Hear sweet discourse, converse with noblemen.
heard! Steel, if thou turn the edge, or cut not out
Nature's: Fortune reigns in gifts of the world,
than now in first seeing he had proved himself a
And I prithee tell me, how dost thou find the
Enter DON PEDRO and CLAUDIO, and two or three others
Let him be punish'd, sovereign, lest example
Exit
She passes praise; then praise too short doth blot.
Faith, but you do, in my mind.
Rogue, rogue, rogue!
But say, what to thine old news?
You mistake, knight; 'accost' is front her, board
He has strangled
Upon my life, Petruchio means but well,
Pray God you have not murdered some of them.
Thy virtues spoke of, and thy beauty sounded,
You do not know him, my lord, as we do: certain it
And all the priests and friars in my realm
My tears for glasses, and still make me weep.
themselves. O thou great thunder-darter of Olympus,
Our king and all his company.
Which of these sorrows is he subject to?
do; and they with continual action are even as good as rotten.
between France and him. Pray you, let's hit
Dost thou know me, fellow?
Here do I choose, and thrive I as I may!
What's he that wishes so?
Good sir, be a man;
As Priam is in Ilion.
the arm's end: I will here be with thee presently;
Madam, O good empress!
Scoff on, vile fiend and shameless courtezan!
The truest manner'd; such a holy witch
Why then, my love adieu!
the line: now, jerkin, you are like to lose your
You will say she did embrace me as a husband,
This is Trebonius.
What ruin happen'd in revenge of him,
But did you ever tell him she was false?
delivered upon the mellowing of occasion. But the
Beshrew me but I love her heartily;
How now, my dear Othello!
Retiring from the siege of Orleans,
This is but a custom in your tongue; you bear a
Which makes it five and twenty. Still in motion
Methinks, 'tis prize enough to be his son.
More health and happiness betide my liege
Peace, I pray you. Now let us understand. There is
Which he had thought to have murder'd wrongfully.
Rode he on Barbary? Tell me, gentle friend,
arithmetic but her brain to set down her reckoning:
Is such as basest and contemned'st wretches
And, with thy hand, thy faith irrevocable,
What a full fortune does the thicklips owe
Embrace and kiss and take ten thousand leaves,
and devils!
As ever Beatrice shall couch upon?
Exeunt
In peace and honour rest you here, my sons;
And pawn mine honour for their safety: since
You gods that made me man, and sway in love,
And leads me to your eyes, where I o'erlook
before the intended wedding,--for in the meantime I
That from the seedness the bare fallow brings
By humble message and by promised means:
Enforced thee! art thou king, and wilt be forced?
My bosom likes not, nor my brows! Mamillius,
Exeunt
My rapier in his bosom and withal
You say you are a better soldier:
Demetrius is a worthy gentleman.
This present enterprise set off his head,
It were fit you knew him; lest, reposing too far in
And cancel these cold bonds. O Imogen!
When I desired him to come home to dinner,
Your well defended honour, you must pardon
It alone concerns your ear. I bring no overture of
I should not for my life but weep with him.
Now the witch take me, if I meant it thus!
chamber matter of it: if he were twenty Sir John
Hark, I will tell you what our sport shall be.
My lord, most villanously; believe it.
Did I not tell you she was innocent?
I'll show thee every fertile inch o' th' island;
knowest her not?
The water of my land, find her disease,
The princess of this country, and the air on't
Even with a treacherous fine of all your lives,
Upon this coast, I warrant you.
Then, Timon, presently prepare thy grave;
Who wouldst thou serve?
I am a villain: yet I lie. I am not.
There are a sort of men whose visages
But that the Scot on his unfurnish'd kingdom
Even so great men great losses should endure.
price of hogs: if we grow all to be pork-eaters, we
Much is the force of heaven-bred poesy.
Go, sirrah, take them to the buttery,
And in this state she gallops night by night
Sayest thou?
My lady's father.
I'll frown and be perverse an say thee nay,
I humbly beseech you, sir, to pardon me all the
Faith, we may put up our pipes, and be gone.
Deny your love, so rich within his soul,
He has the stamp of Marcius; and I have
Death of one person can be paid but once,
And stand securely on their battlements,
friend of mine come to town tells me there is three
Helena is here at hand;
At the good queen's entreaty.
I know not how I shall assure you further,
together at the latter day and cry all 'We died at
By any mark of favour.
What, canst thou say all this, and never blush?
Those wounds heal ill that men do give themselves:
Come, come, 'tis only I that must disgrace thee.
And mark'd you both and for you both did blush:
But what said Jaques?
I would you heard it groan.
And hear thou there how many fruitless pranks
And made your other love, Demetrius,
Take but good note, and you shall see in him.
Two chantries, where the sad and solemn priests
Art thou, indeed?
How many hours bring about the day;
Despiteful tidings! O unpleasing news!
Troilus, by Menelaus.
For every pelting, petty officer
monstrous till his fellow fault came to match it.
Legitimation, name and all is gone:
Would say your head and butt were head and horn.
The leaves and fruit maintain'd with beauty's sun,
Peace, and be still!
Ay, ay, prithee now. By my troth, sweet lord, thou
magnanimous and most illustrate king Cophetua set
I'll bring you comfort.
how does thine ague?
Your master quits you; and for your service done him,
Until the elder sister first be wed:
My reverend father, let it not be so!
Are not you moved, when all the sway of earth
O, ho, are you there with me? No eyes in your
Charms this report out.
that I returned you an empty messenger.
Fiery? the fiery duke? Tell the hot duke that--
art thou within point-blank of our jurisdiction
coziers' catches without any mitigation or remorse
Nor will I sue, although the king have mercies
Enter CYMBELINE, BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, ARVIRAGUS,  PISANIO, Soldiers, Attendants, and Roman Captives.  The Captains present POSTHUMUS LEONATUS to  CYMBELINE, who delivers him over to a Gaoler: then exeunt omnes
The ostentation of our love, which, left unshown,
Yet doth he give us bold advertisement,
No, by my troth, not long; for we cannot lodge and
And she did gratify his amorous works
What is it?--Coriolanus must I call thee?--
Go, you wild bedfellow, you cannot soothsay.
have not seen him this two days.
His nurse! why, she was dead ere thou wert born.
But seven years since, in Syracusa, boy,
Both to defend my loyalty and truth
To underprop this action? Is't not I
A minister in his power. You know his nature,
To undercrest your good addition
I'll tell thee as we pass; but this I pray,
Sweet madam, give me a hearing in a cause--
The fearful French, whom you late vanquished,
But when he frown'd, it was against the French
Yea, but a little charge will trench him here
And men may talk of kings, and why not I?
And thou the velvet: thou art good velvet; thou'rt
First Serving-man	Nay, if we be forbidden stones,
Three kings I had newly feasted, and did want
And if my death might make this island happy,
Exit
Pass.
What then?
And he hath cut those pretty fingers off,
This vengeance on me had they executed.
Follow the knave; and take this drab away.
Here's more news.
Stoop'd as to foot us: his ascension is
He lived from all attainder of suspect.
I know no further:
Enter MARIA and Clown
But if thou strive, poor soul, what art thou then?
You'd be so lean, that blasts of January
Hast thou that holy feeling in thy soul,
Nurse!
The other for some while a friend.
God forbid any malice should prevail,
Falls and dies
In peace was never gentle lamb more mild,
What colour is it of?
In their gold coats spots you see;
O, world, how apt the poor are to be proud!
Advanced in time to great and high estate,
The wrinkles in my brows, now filled with blood,
Yield to his humour, smooth and speak him fair,
If I had thought the sight of my poor image
A man of his place, and so near our favour,
In mine own comforts. I prithee, good Iago,
So I shall mend mine own, by the lack of thine.
Exit
Enter POLONIUS, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN
And let us, ciphers to this great accompt,
Nay, that I mean to do. Is not this a lamentable
What is the body when the head is off?
the form of a beast. O Jove, a beastly fault! And
master, be not afraid.
bountiful gentleman: but thou art wise; and thou
Say you have wrong'd her, sir.
Thou ran'st a tilt in honour of my love
not pocket up wrong: art thou not ashamed?
That chides the banks of England, Scotland, Wales,
worse after dinner, I will not part from thee yet.
No, sir, nor I mean it not.
Exit
The deer was, as you know, sanguis, in blood; ripe
Yet 'banished'? Hang up philosophy!
It lies in you, my lord, to bring me in some grace,
true, that thou art beauteous; truth itself, that
Of all his wars within the realm of France?
The world esteem'd thy father honourable,
Thrice hath Calpurnia in her sleep cried out,
Look to your babe, my lord; 'tis yours:
sun practising behavior to his own shadow this half
And give them repetition to the life.
Exeunt
Shall rest in London till we come to him.
As well might poison poison! Be revenged;
And just against thy heart make thou a hole;
So had you need.
All praises, which are paid as debts,
They draw
The which he promised. Do but encave yourself,
He whined and roar'd away your victory,
Ay, but, I fear me, in another sense.
On his follies: never did I hear
I fight against thee! No: I will go seek
Some bloody sign of it; for 'tis commanded
A little time will melt her frozen thoughts
We serve you, madam,
My dear son Ferdinand.
[Aside]  I know not what impediment this complaint
Addicted so and so:' and there put on him
You nimble lightnings, dart your blinding flames
What, art a heathen? How dost thou understand the
Why, then All-Souls' day is my body's doomsday.
Pray, be content:
You will! why, happy man be's dole! My brother,
If this were so, so were it uttered.
The field of Golgotha and dead men's skulls.
We'll fight with him to-night.
Take from my mouth the wish of happy years:
Why I do trifle thus with his despair
Away, away, good William de la Pole!
Neither, my lord.
that all the beholders take his part with weeping.
Now, fair Hippolyta, our nuptial hour
Heaven guide him to thy husband's cudgel, and the
Here lies thy heart, thy sinews, and thy bone.
Ah, sir, there's many a Greek and Trojan dead,
Shall never find it more.
Is your displeasure with the king.
Ay, but he will not now be pacified: Fabian can
And loves not me, be you, good lord, assured
For all my blood in Rome's great quarrel shed;
A man, if I live; and this, by, in, and without, upon
Under the veil of wildness; which, no doubt,
Know him! ay.
I think it is: and doth affection breed it?
I shall cut out your tongue.
have been often bound for no less than my life.
I cannot delve him to the root: his father
To speak your deeds, not little of his care
Then you love us, we you, and we'll clasp hands:
Where you are liberal of your loves and counsels
Prithee, be not sad,
Desired us to make stand.
Out, gall!
As you have done; that's what I can; induced
You must not put another scandal on him,
That for a toy, a thing of no regard,
That did disrobe the lion of that robe!
But if you do refuse to marry me,
Why, now thou diest as bravely as Titinius;
To Hymen, god of every town!
No man must know.
SCENE I. Without the walls of Athens.
He is a very serpent in my way;
To chide him from our eaves; for he persists
lent him visitation.
The direful spectacle of the wreck, which touch'd
Good sir, draw near to me, I'll speak to him.
Why in this woolvish toge should I stand here,
Signior Hortensio, 'twixt such friends as we
Then they could smile and fawn upon his debts
My lord?
O, what a sympathy of woe is this,
Run reeking o'er the lives of men, as if
As with a man by his own alms empoison'd,
And in the spirit of men there is no blood:
A canopy most fatal, under which
I would you would accept of grace and love.
sing it at her death.
Hath my maid's garments: he upon some action
Requite your love!
Home to your house, the Phoenix, sir, to dinner:
Your wit's too hot, it speeds too fast, 'twill tire.
horses: the duke himself will be to-morrow at
God knows I will not do it, to the death.
Craved audience; and the hour, I think, is come
barbarism, and policy grows into an ill opinion.
How can that be, when you have the voice of the king
The act of order to a peopled kingdom.
raisins o' the sun.
You dog!
My lord, I dare not make myself so guilty,
Made scruple of his praise; and wager'd with him
The grand conspirator, Abbot of Westminster,
But end it by some means for Imogen.
Now for the counsel of my son and queen!
More cruel to your good report than grateful
God knows, of pure devotion; being call'd
In love?
One, her hairs were gold, crystal the other's eyes:
Which, but their children's end, nought could remove,
Cousin, all honour to thee!
What the conditions of that league must be.
To that owes it, namely this young prince:
of a lazar, so I were not Menelaus! Hey-day!
Enter PARIS, and his Page bearing flowers and a torch
The means that heaven yields must be embraced,
Here are a few of the unpleasant'st words
Look, Marcus! ah, son Lucius, look on her!
'To Julia.' Say, from whom?
Than Harry Percy's wife: constant you are,
And friends with Caesar.
Than carry it but by the suit of the gentry to him,
The service of the foot
Ducks to the golden fool: all is oblique;
I take thee, Rosalind, for wife.
Therefore be deaf to my unpitied folly.
have been as good as my word.
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY VI, WARWICK, MONTAGUE, CLARENCE, EXETER, and OXFORD
Why, I'll tell you: this is called Pentapolis, and
Whose blood is fet from fathers of war-proof!
Which lay nice manners by, I put you to
'Item: She is curst.'
Where youth, and cost, and witless bravery keeps.
O Nell, sweet Nell, if thou dost love thy lord,
Though he had twinn'd with me, both at a birth,
and ladies too, they will not let me have all fool
There, take thy hire; and all the fiends of hell
Ask him his name and orderly proceed
Enter, go in; the market bell is rung.
Of all thy sex; most monster-like, be shown
Content with Hermia! No; I do repent
Without more overture.
I have business to my lord, dear queen. My lord,
And harbourage for ourself, our ships, and men.
Whispers
How now! has sorrow made thee dote already?
recover them. As proper men as ever trod upon
Since birth, and heaven, and earth, all three do meet
Turn then my freshest reputation to
Proclaims how she esteem'd him and his virtue;
I have slept, my lord, already.
Which for our goods we do no further ask
Those gracious words revive my drooping thoughts
I know I love in vain, strive against hope;
because his own are out, let him be judge how deep I
Who with them was a rated sinew too
To TOUCHSTONE
So please your majesty
Who are you? Tell me, for more certainty,
That fly me thus? some villain mountaineers?
I should have been more strange, I must confess,
To wisdom he's a fool that will not yield;
I think I told your lordship a year since, how much
As cause doth minister. Go call at Flavius' house,
Goblin, lead them up and down.
When night-dogs run, all sorts of deer are chased.
From niggard nature fall, yet rich conceit
Hark, hark, my lord! what shouts are these?
ones; but they are most of them means and bases; but
To me he seems like diamond to glass.
to come to the mines; for, look you, the mines is
Enter Messenger
The harlot's cheek, beautied with plastering art,
Be grafted to your relish. Yet welcome, warriors:
But none of 'em can be found. Stand! who's there?
There lies your way, due west.
For he hath laid strange courtesies and great
But truth is truth: large lengths of seas and shores
Before and in Corioli, let me say,
Ay, sir.
The complot of this timeless tragedy;
Fit for the mountains and the barbarous caves,
Your daughter, if you have not given her leave,
That inward breaks, and shows no cause without
I wish your enterprise to-day may thrive.
And you, our no less loving son of Albany,
To me and to my aid the blest infusions
but to play at loggats with 'em? mine ache to think on't.
Sweet York, sweet husband, be not of that mind:
Fie, what an indirect and peevish course
Exit
gave me nothing for't. Can you make no use of
Were strangely clamorous to the frighted fields.
Mount, eagle, to my palace crystalline.
My purpose would prove well. It cannot be
My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.
O God, sir, here's a dish I love not: I cannot
I am; therefore come down, and welcome me.
country Greece gets more with begging than we can do
And stands alone.
lady within?
What cannoneer begot this lusty blood?
SCENE IV. Rome. Philario's house.
What would you more? Pompey, good night. Good brother,
My vouch against you, and my place i' the state,
Good heart, at what?
So say I, madam, if he run away, as I hear he does:
With those legions
You less know how to value her desert
The pitfall nor the gin.
with an old man.
To QUEEN ELIZABETH
multitude? The name of Henry the Fifth hales them
Is this the prince? is this the prince's brother?
endeavours; for then we wound our modesty and make
ANTIPHOLUS
Cornelia the midwife and myself;
Enter MORTIMER, brought in a chair, and Gaolers
Prithee, Kate, let's stand aside and see the end of
Who comes here?
Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS, and ALEXAS
Three Judases, each one thrice worse than Judas!
Good master doctor, see him safe convey'd
My loving lord, Dumain is mortified:
These unknown friends to's welcome; for it is
Although my last: no matter, since I feel
have no more doublets than backs, no more stockings
Examine other beauties.
Alas, your too much love and care of me
Signior Petruchio, fie! you are to blame.
From these sad thoughts, that work too much upon him:
The grief is fine, full, perfect, that I taste,
like a man at a mark, with a whole army shooting at
Of the Lord Bonville on your new wife's son,
Flourish. Exeunt
She was a wight, if ever such wight were,--
BISHOP
I pray thee, good Leonardo, think on this:
A thought which, quarter'd, hath but one part wisdom
Congeal'd with this, do make me wipe off both.
Where, underneath the grove of sycamore
Re-enter LUCIUS and MARCUS
Many will swoon when they do look on blood.
And now behold the meaning.
By light we lose light: your capacity
I long
So fair, and fasten'd to an empery,
Faith, stay here this night; they will surely do us
With cautelous baits and practise.
The people love me, and the sea is mine;
Hugh Otecake, sir, or George Seacole; for they can
Could draw to part them, was stout Tybalt slain.
When he sees me go back one foot or fly.
That our swift-winged souls may catch the king's;
Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.
That those which fly before the battle ends
From which lord to which lady?
than there is between red wine and rhenish. But
They dare not show their husbands; their best conscience
Make up to Clifton: I'll to Sir Nicholas Gawsey.
Should bring thy father to his drooping chair.
They advance to another post
Tends that thou wouldst speak to the Duke of Hereford?
Here's that, I warrant you, will pay them all.
Fortune is Bardolph's foe, and frowns on him;
That down fell both the Ram's horns in the court;
Stay; give me drink. Hamlet, this pearl is thine;
A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
And she, too desperate, would not go with me,
shall not a maid be married, but she shall pay to me
Great sir, they shall be brought you to my house,
Alarum. Excursions. Enter JOAN LA PUCELLE
But from this lady may proceed a gem
Well thought upon; I have it here about me.
'Tis the more honour, because more dangerous.
That nature works, and of her cures; which doth give me
Day, night, hour, tide, time, work, play,
Suggested us to make. Therefore, ladies,
Sheathing the steel in my adventurous body.
it, six French rapiers and poniards, with their
SCENE II. Bohemia. The palace of POLIXENES.
Enter EDMUND, with his rapier drawn, CORNWALL, REGAN, GLOUCESTER, and Servants
Of these Plantagenets, Henry and Edward,
this year connive at us, and we may do any thing
And prologue to the omen coming on,
But do not dull thy palm with entertainment
All happiness unto my lord the king!
Come, come, Antipholus, we dine too late.
Have I affected wealth or honour? speak.
Thou fond mad man, hear me but speak a word.
Lend me thy hand, and I will give thee mine.
so loud and so melancholy. But notwithstanding,
Then after to her father will I break;
Farewell, kind Charmian; Iras, long farewell.
For, I presume, brave Hector would not lose
Exit
Take heed you fall not.
A base Walloon, to win the Dauphin's grace,
Hadst thou but shook thy head or made a pause
Then, have I reason to be fond of grief?
Exeter, so will I.
So sovereignly being honourable.
O, 'tis a worthy lord.
Enter ALCIBIADES, with Attendants
We'll feast each other ere we part; and let's
execution: you are condemned, our general has sworn
'Tis now too certain:
The peace of heaven is theirs that lift their swords
See, who comes here?
And now have toil'd their unbreathed memories
As secretly and justly as your soul
Or I shall so be-mete thee with thy yard
What should I say? his deeds exceed all speech:
And now worth nothing? Shall I have the thought
name's Gonzago: the story is extant, and writ in
I cannot taint with fear. What's the boy Malcolm?
Upon the witness of these gentlemen,
Enter WORCESTER and VERNON
Why, cousin! why, Rosalind! Cupid have mercy! not a word?
Enter Host and SIMPLE
My tongue should to thy ears not name my boys
Any exploit worthy the name of honour.
Straight, how 'tis like to go.
This is the deadly spite that angers me;
Let's see what they be: read them.
knapped ginger or made her neighbours believe she
But if all aim but this be levell'd false,
Remorse from power: and, to speak truth of Caesar,
Not separated with the racking clouds,
Jove shield your husband from his hounds to-day!
As venerable Nestor, hatch'd in silver,
Sweet York, be patient. Hear me, gentle liege.
What says Lord Stanley? will he bring his power?
Why, do you not know him?
May be she pluck'd it off
look after it.
Or feed upon such nice and waterish diet,
Must strike her sail and learn awhile to serve
That very time I saw, but thou couldst not,
Soon sleep in quiet. O, how my heart abhors
Wrench it open;
Why, what a caterwauling dost thou keep!
as braggarts do their blades, which God be thanked,
Be stirring as the time; be fire with fire;
Which did incorporate and make us one,
Antonio, I arrest thee at the suit of Count Orsino.
Go play, Mamillius; thou'rt an honest man.
I am to blame to be thus waited for.
The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
Thou wast born to conquer my country.
With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected,
I see, as in a map, the end of all.
What news, Sir Thomas Lovell?
Unless the nightly owl or fatal raven:
Of wondrous virtues: sometimes from her eyes
Lets the paper fall
And spurn me back: but if it be not so,
For strangers to my nature. I am yet
As sure as in this late-betrayed town
'Tis his description.
nine that I know.
But I am doubtful of your modesties;
What then?
This becomes the great.
I am much too venturous
The people will remain uncertain whilst
You moonshine revellers and shades of night,
thoughts; wherein I confess me much guilty, to deny
Enter TIMON, in a rage, FLAMINIUS following
Exit SCARUS
Will't not be?
Thou show'st a noble vessel: what's thy name?
Whose western side is with a vineyard back'd;
Enfranchisement immediate on his kn ees:
Whether till the next night she had rather stay,
For tinctures, stains, relics and cognizance.
let him have knowledge who I am.
Nor thou, nor these, confederates in the deed
he?
Go, tread the path that thou shalt ne'er return.
Do, good old grandsire; and withal make known
My lord, here comes the rascal I spoke of; here with
Wound the loud winds, or with bemock'd-at stabs
I know no news, my lord.
Against the steep uprising of the hill?
My sacred aunt, should by my mortal sword
To give mine enemy a lasting wink;
My words express my purpose.
They shall be satisfied: I'll read enough,
Folly in fools bears not so strong a note
Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
I have sent to bid Cassio come speak with you.
His master and he, saving your worship's reverence,
And every word in it a gaping wound,
[Aside to MENAS]  Forbear me till anon.
What! how! how!
Enter another Messenger
Fie, fie, fie, fie!
To GONERIL
To BRABANTIO
Sir Thurio, fear not you: I will so plead
If she pertain to life let her speak too.
'Tis pity love should be so contrary;
nearer to heaven than when I saw you last, by the
For the sea's worth. But, look! what lights come yond?
They will not answer to that epithet;
To cease thy suit, and leave me to my grief:
How now, old lad?
Good Master Vernon, I am bound to you,
But what I am, want teaches me to think on:
The bigger bulk it shows. Hence, bashful cunning!
Nothing emboldens sin so much as mercy.
Nominativo, hig, hag, hog; pray you, mark:
Ye elves of hills, brooks, standing lakes and groves,
Exit
I would scarce trust myself, though I had sworn the
Praising her when I am dumb.
Then, gentle Clarence, welcome unto Warwick;
Thus I mend it: Time himself is bald and therefore
You taught me but while-ere?
Ay, my good lady, he.
Amen, amen! Mount, chevaliers! to arms!
We have lost
Pause, if thou wilt.
Can trace me in the tedious ways of art
on. She hath made me four and twenty nose-gays for
Great is his comfort in this earthly vale,
Show thee a jay's nest and instruct thee how
The which when any shall not gratify,
And take her by the hand, whose worth and honesty
tell you, since I heard of the good lady's death and
Thy voice is thunder, but thy looks are humble.
I will not do thee so much wrong to wake thee:
every man put himself into triumph; some to dance,
That mortal ears might hardly endure the din?
Let him go, Gertrude; do not fear our person:
This good man,--few of you deserve that title,--
God 'ild you, sir; I desire you of the like. I
And rail upon the hostess of the house;
Remember! yes.
Never to part with it; and here he stands;
O gracious emperor! O gentle Aaron!
Claudio die to-morrow or no?
I'll swear I am a maid, and he knows not.
Will this gear ne'er be mended?
The sun shines hot; and, if we use delay,
Let heaven and men and devils, let them all,
Your wives shall welcome home the conquerors;
Larding the plain; and by his bloody side,
In winter's cold and summer's parching heat,
Blush that the world goes well, who rather had,
Since we have locks to safeguard necessaries,
Yes, marry, have I; what of that?
Young son, it argues a distemper'd head
natural for our whetstone; for always the dulness of
too; though, in the mean time, some necessary
If we know him to be a thief, shall we not lay
Most strange, but yet most truly, will I speak:
Itself for being there?
And time that is so briefly spent
Keep house and port and servants as I should:
Or manage it to part these men with me.
[Advancing]  How shall I murder him, Iago?
That one by one pursue: if you give way,
'Fore God, they have given me a rouse already.
As we are now glad to behold your eyes;
By deed-achieving honour newly named,--
But, woe is me, you are so sick of late,
My youthful travel therein made me happy,
Obey our will, which travails in thy good:
Or scant our former having in despite;
Rome and the righteous heavens be my judge,
eminent in the degree of this fortune as Cassio
Quarrels unjust against the good and loyal,
The king's disease--my project may deceive me,
northerly.
Lady Beatrice, I will get you one.
and in this she manifests herself to my love, and
Patience her injury a mockery makes.
nothing, is to be a great part of your title; which
A cur, sir.
Enter KING JOHN, PEMBROKE, SALISBURY, and other Lords
[Aside]  You are a fool granted; therefore your
Raising up wicked spirits from under ground,
Than the death-darting eye of cockatrice:
Enter QUEEN MARGARET, CLIFFORD, NORTHUMBERLAND, PRINCE EDWARD, and Soldiers
Then none but I shall turn his jest to sorrow.
Here's ado,
My master's man. Strato, where is thy master?
That quaint in green she shall be loose enrobed,
This was my speech, and I will speak't again--
If I dream not, thou art AEmilia:
No more such wives; therefore, no wife: one worse,
Exit an Attendant
No!
witness. Here I hold your hand, here my cousin's.
Nor I, ungracious, speak unto myself
That, upon knowledge of my parentage,
So stale and cheap to vulgar company,
For I was train'd up in the English court;
Stay, though thou kill me, sweet Demetrius.
new-ta'en sparrow.
What, Warwick, wilt thou leave the town and fight?
Of these delated articles allow.
Let me be ta'en, let me be put to death;
I will answer you with gait and entrance. But we
Aside to GLOUCESTER
house, and lands, and wife and all, from me.
And, Somerset, we'll commit thee thither,
Were growing time once ripen'd to my will.
would I could find in my heart that I had not a hard
Lay breath so bitter on your bitter foe.
you any good; and that is but a kind of bastard
Like true, inseparable, faithful loves,
Every tithe soul, 'mongst many thousand dismes,
And so in this, to bear me down with braves.
First hang the child, that he may see it sprawl;
Had been the regent there instead of me,
And death's dishonourable victory
Of bloody turbulence, and this whole night
What, have I scaped love-letters in the holiday-
Putting up the letter
Giving our holy virgins to the stain
TYBALT under ROMEO's arm stabs MERCUTIO, and flies with his followers
Than you to punish.
Swill'd with the wild and wasteful ocean.
Whilst to take order for the wrongs I went,
He's gone.
Haply I see a friend will save my life
But, O, how oddly will it sound that I
My lord, look here: look here, Lavinia:
Exit Chamberlain, attended. All rise, and tables removed
Good morrow to thee; welcome:
Lucina lent not me her aid,
stand upon your honour! Why, thou unconfinable
Should say myself offended, and with you
What power the Duke of York had levied there;
I grant, sweet love, that I did love a lady;
To assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps
Alack, what trouble
Determine for her; for Caesar cannot live
Fear not, my lord, we will not stand to prate;
That I sleeping here was found
Do you hear, masters? do you hear?
ANTIPHOLUS
mutiny; whose qualification shall come into no true
tender, a kind of tender, made afar off by Sir Hugh
Not mine; my gloves are on.
Do you damn others, and let this damn you,
Helen, I mean.
Indeed! ay, indeed: discern'st thou aught in that?
Exit Lord Mayor
By hurting it; or when to the lute
Hold thy desperate hand:
Hortensio will be quit with thee by changing.
Your blunt upbraidings and your bitter scoffs:
I beseech your majesty, give me leave to go;
She thanks you.
Within these ten days if that thou be'st found
Exit
A thing of pity!
If any such be here--as God forbid!--
O, what a beast was I to chide at him!
Your patience so predominant in your nature
withal, that either you might stay him from his
He is my prisoner, and you shall not have him.
Submit thee, boy.
I'll have that doctor for my bedfellow.
and scoured.
Stole from my bed: and yesternight, at supper,
And, through the cranks and offices of man,
Is this your promise? go to, hold your tongue.
I am too sore enpierced with his shaft
And brings from him such offers of our peace
For any or for all these exercises,
pardon thereunto, recount the occasion of my sudden
That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; 'beautified' is
The trumpet to the cannoneer without,
To answer twenty thousand such as you.
You have won a happy victory to Rome;
Above their functions and their offices.
have daffed all other respects and made her half
And bear his courses to be ordered
To that I call!
And Smith the weaver,--
By all the operation of the orbs
By this time, had the king permitted us,
O God, your only jig-maker. What should a man do
But now you partly may perceive my mind.
sonnets already: the clown bore it, the fool sent
Our grace can make him so.
The world hath noted, and your name is great
Iron of Naples hid with English gilt,
The gentlest winds of heaven.
The extreme dangers and the drops of blood
New-lighted on a heaven-kissing hill;
Must cover thy sweet eyes.
That she is bound in honour still to do
Her father is Baptista Minola,
A cloak as long as thine will serve the turn?
And tarry with him till I turn again.
In speed to Padua: see thou render this
a body, we have ten proofs to one that blood hath
As I upon advantage did remove,
Steps aside
That thinks he hath done well in people's eyes,
I would 'twere something that would fret the string,
And what hope is that, I pray thee?
So please your grace, the packet is not come
And this is all.
And subjects punish'd that ne'er thought offence:
I pray you, show my youth old Shylock's house.
To plead for that which I would not obtain,
I will so. What's the matter?
But, look, where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.
My woes end likewise with the evening sun.
and that soundly: you cannot tell who's your friend:
Iago set him on.
That's most certain.
Belonging to a man. O, be some other name!
She loves me, sure; the cunning of her passion
perfumes of Arabia will not sweeten this little
O, my dear Orlando, how it grieves me to see thee
The surgeon's box, or the patient's wound.
shines bright and never changes, but keeps his
Why do we finger thus? I cannot rest
If I have used myself unmannerly;
Stepp'd in so far that, should I wade no more,
state, shepherd.
With three or four loggerheads amongst three or four
The motto thus, in Spanish, 'Piu por dulzura que por fuerza.'
Nay, never paint me now:
No.
Your husband is at hand; I hear his trumpet:
England and France, and lord of Ireland,  and c.
Antony only, that would make his will
On my soul, I'll speak but truth.
Commend my service to me sovereign.'
This casket threatens. Men that hazard all
Their eyes o'ergalled with recourse of tears;
Hiding his bitter jests in blunt behavior:
To give thee hallow'd to thy grave, but straight
Not a dump we; 'tis no time to play now.
I prithee, gentle friend,
If wealthily, then happily in Padua.
And make 'em reel before 'em. No man living
Instead whereof let this supply the room:
We'll sift this matter further.
Rises
Are melted into air, into thin air:
Dear my lord, pardon,--I dare not,
bring the doctor about by the fields. Will it do well?
Your leave and favour to return to France;
Shall die a beggar. Ink and paper, Charmian.
What, you egg!
Ay me, I see the downfall of our house!
But stay a while: what company is this?
Yea, curse his better angel from his side,
Either betray'd by falsehood of his guard
Shall I vouchsafe your worship a word or two?
Though not for me, yet for your aching bones.
Stand close up, or I'll make your head ache.
Gloucester,'
Hum! ha! is this a vision? is this a dream? do I
As 'tis with us that square our guess by shows;
twenty to follow mine own teaching. The brain may
Takes off his crown
Right joyful of your reformation.
A soul as even as a calm: pray, think us
Pursued him still: and, three nights after this,
My red dominical, my golden letter:
But neither bended knees, pure hands held up,
When from the Dauphin's crest thy sword struck fire,
For this, consorted with the citizens,
Justice, most gracious duke, O, grant me justice!
Mark you but that!
Mine ear must pluck it thence.
And what love can do that dares love attempt;
Exit BARDOLPH
'tis thou
Unhappily, even so.
protest I loved you.
Presently
Go to, I know you well enough.
The time shall not be many hours of age
What, the commonwealth their boots? will she hold
Quite in the wrong. How do you now, lieutenant?
O, go not yet! Even thus two friends condemn'd
And do not know ourselves, when we hold rumour
Far off, methinks, I hear the beaten drum:
The purpose is perspicuous even as substance,
wilt thou do this?
Get thee hence; farewell.
passion something and for no passion truly any
To sour your happiness, I must report
grandfather's.
And in the sacred Pantheon her espouse:
Enter OLIVIA and Attendants
But let me hear the letter of your friend.
Yes, there is remedy enough, my lord:
Which we, God knows, have turn'd another way,
Within the limits of yon lime and stone:
Are there no stones in heaven
Exeunt other Servants
Drunk!
virginity was first lost. That you were made of is
They are not herbs, you knave; they are nose-herbs.
Hold little faith, though thou hast too much fear.
though they be long ere they are wooed, they are
How holily he works in all his business!
And found--dispatch. The noble duke my master,
It is the part of men to fear and tremble,
That I kiss aught but he.
My talk to thee must be how Benedick
Out, scab!
Lay not your blame on me: If you have lost him,
That it runs over even at his eyes.
ladies most desirous of admittance.
Hitting a grosser quality, is cried up
By this white glove;--how white the hand, God knows!--
And reason to my love is liable.
No, not for all the riches under heaven.
It is religion to be thus forsworn,
Put the wild waters in this roar, allay them.
Dread lord, the commons send you word by me,
To have thee crown'd withal.
O God! if my deep prayers cannot appease thee,
And grapple thee unto a pagan shore;
And had I not been cited so by them,
And crown you king of this day's happiness.
Where the dead body is bestow'd, my lord,
new ship to purge melancholy and air himself: for,
Let me know the point.
I speak in understanding; you are; I know't:
Dromio, thou drone, thou snail, thou slug, thou sot!
This is stiff news--hath, with his Parthian force,
O Fates, come, come,
He should have had a volume of farewells;
With colours fairer painted their foul ends.
I would my horse had the speed of your tongue, and
I will not trust you, sir.
And by his hollow whistling in the leaves
I' the absence of the needer.
No, indeed, sir, not of a pin; you are therein in
looked for Master Caius, that calls himself doctor of physic?
Toward heaven, to pardon blood; and I have built
All seeing heaven, what a world is this!
eternity and could put breath into his work, would
And so I do, and with his gifts present
And brings the dire occasion in his arms
The woman falls; sure, he hath kill'd his wife.
Like warlike as the wolf for what we eat;
Commotion in the winds! frights, changes, horrors,
Of love between your daughter and himself:
I should not know you, Brutus. Dear my lord,
Am I not witch'd like her? or thou not false like him?
And make triumphant fires; strew flowers before them:
I beseech your graces both to pardon me;
I am all the daughters of my father's house,
Ay, 'twas he that told me first:
And so I am, I am.
And ghosts did shriek and squeal about the streets.
We will not part from hence. Cesario, come;
She looks upon them with a threatening eye.
There are but sixteen hundred mercenaries;
My liege,
Shakes all our buds from growing.
that I love passing well.
I after him do after him wish too,
The well-appointed king at Hampton pier
Wreck'd as homeward he did come.
So he be dead; for that is good deceit
You are come to Sandal in a happy hour;
Being o'er shoes in blood, plunge in the deep,
A thing like death to chide away this shame,
Who sensibly outdares his senseless sword,
As there is sense in truth and truth in virtue,
I say she shall: and first begin with her.
Ay, sir; I'll call them to you.
Or I shall faint. A plague o' both your houses!
It is not his, my lord; here Southam lies:
With an attent ear, till I may deliver,
[To EDMUND]  Then shall you go no further.
BISHOP
Away! for death doth hold us in pursuit.
What is betid to Cloten; but remain
You were half blasted ere I knew you: ha!
And from the ladder-tackle washes off
taught me how to know a man in love; in which cage
Not so, Sir Walter: we'll withdraw awhile.
out of the house: prithee, call my master to him.
will: rich honesty dwells like a miser, sir, in a
to the country maid Jaquenetta:
You were ever good at sudden commendations,
with Camillo to take away the life of our sovereign
I cannot speak to her, yet she urged conference.
'Jockey of Norfolk, be not too bold,
When waterdrops have worn the stones of Troy,
My soul the father; and these two beget
False to his children or his wife's allies
I am a gentleman of a company.
Enter THERSITES
Speak then, thou vinewedst leaven, speak: I will
no greater forfeit to the law than Angelo who hath
I'll to the mart, and there for Dromio stay
he talked very wisely, but I regarded him not; and
More covetous of wisdom and fair virtue
The very doors and windows savour vilely.
To show his teeth as white as whale's bone;
Right gracious lord, I cannot brook delay:
And those that bear them living.
you, I am of the church, and will be glad to do my
Shaking the bloody darts as he his bells.
How came we ashore?
The affliction nor the fear.
Work thou the way,--and thou shalt execute.
Sign'd in thy spoil, and crimson'd in thy lethe.
Yes, I know thee to be Signior Lucentio.
'Peace, peace, peace!' 'Stay, hold, peace!'
And the remainder, that shall still depend,
Hark, wretches! how I mean to martyr you.
being gracious, than they are in losing them when
They have chose a consul that will from them take
'Twixt you and your poor brother.
The matter?
His semblable, yea, himself, Timon disdains:
I think he thinks upon the savage bull.
I am not glad that such a sore of time
Doth it therefore ensue that you should love his son
And I myself see not the bottom of it.
Where's my spaniel Troilus? Sirrah, get you hence,
At chamber--door? and one as great as you are?
That's all one: has hurt me, and there's the end
That knows no touch to tune the harmony:
Be it forbid, my lord!
if I be drunk, I'll be drunk with those that have
I am so dishonour'd that the very hour
O happy man! they have befriended thee.
Has he, masters?
Her enemies' marks upon me. I do love
Reft of his brother, but retain'd his name--
Thou'rt mad to say it:
That, if thou conquer Rome, the benefit
My duty pricks me on to utter that
Who told me, when we both lay in the field
As my Antigonus to break his grave
It is thy business that I go about;
What mean you, madam? I have made no fault.
He tells us Arthur is deceased to-night.
Trumpet answers within
with me: I'll be horn-mad.
ANTIPHOLUS
Sleep rock thy brain,
Stay, Roman brethren! Gracious conqueror,
As I stood here below, methought his eyes
Alas, I blame you not; for you are mortal,
ACT II
Hark how I'll bribe you: good my lord, turn back.
By whom, AEneas?
'When he,' quoth she, 'shall split thy heart with sorrow,
By all my hopes, most falsely doth he lie.
Say, is my kingdom lost? why, 'twas my care
Ay, indeed, was he.
All hail, great master! grave sir, hail! I come
But for your words, they rob the Hybla bees,
And bear it from me to the empress.
Better cheer may you have, but not with better heart.
Enter Clown
The lazy yawning drone. I this infer,
I mean our princely father, Duke of York.
You say true:
For that, being one o' the lowest, basest, poorest,
O that we now had here
MISTRESS PAGE and MISTRESS FORD come forward
See, how the pangs of death do make him grin!
No better a musician than the wren.
And charged us from his soul to love each other,
Why, what, i' devil's name, tailor, call'st thou this?
More than the infant that is born to-night
Hung their heads, and then lay by.
O wonderful, when devils tell the truth!
Re-enter ARVIRAGUS, with IMOGEN, as dead, bearing her in his arms
I will be free from thee. What wouldst thou now? If
And for thy treachery, what's more manifest?
Our duty is so rich, so infinite,
well endeavours to trust to himself and to live
O, behold,
their game, and we will to our recreation.
A stone is silent, and offendeth not,
And Humphrey Duke of Gloucester scarce himself,
cooling when 'tis almost an apple: 'tis with him
As you shall give the advice. By the fire
Sure, my noble lord,
To make him worthy whose offence subdues him
Turn'd wild in nature, broke their stalls, flung out,
[Aside]  For this,
Whose ransoms did the general coffers fill:
I clear'd him with five talents: greet him from me;
I was.
Fie, wrangling queen!
To manage private and domestic quarrel,
And in that shame still live my sorrow's rage.
Why, as a woodcock to mine own springe, Osric;
I would not have such a heart in my bosom for the
Of this yet scarce-cold battle, at this instant
Hercules, master.
SCENE II. A hall in the castle.
And make thee curse the harvest of that corn.
Enter a Lord
Were it good, think you?
The noble sister of Publicola,
Ghosts
In his behalf.
To have't with saying 'Good morrow.'
Enter TRANIO and HORTENSIO
All slain, all dead. 'Romeo is banished!'
But I do find it cowardly and vile,
That is he: I'll tell you there is good men porn at Monmouth.
Where will you find men worthy enough to present them?
this letter to Mistress Page; and thou this to
Will remain hers.
Let shame say what it will: when these are gone,
Approacheth, to confer about some matter.
Nay, but you will?
Whose dreadful swords were never drawn in vain,
Borne with the invisible and creeping wind,
Of eyes again so royal! Your crown's awry;
Mordake the Earl of Fife, and eldest son
will hang them. Get you gone, and let me hear no
Approach, Sir Andrew: not to be abed after
Why, shall the people give
Well said: follow me this jest now till thou hast
At Buckingham and all the crew of them,
You shall digest the venom of your spleen,
With treacherous crowns; and three corrupted men,
With daily prayers all to that effect.
A lover, that kills himself most gallant for love.
Enter MONTAGUE and LADY MONTAGUE
Now in his life, against your holy oath?
Till I torment thee for this injury.
There's not a whittle in the unruly camp
Some of those branches by the Destinies cut;
live. My lady would not lose him for more than I'll say.
There was a Brutus once that would have brook'd
dog.
For us, we will consider of this further:
Whiles yet my soldiers are in my command;
And thou shalt bear it: wilt thou, Silvius?
Thy news?
More pleasant, pithy and effectual,
Foul subornation is predominant
hast thou a mark to thyself, like an honest
That, for the health and physic of our right,
An adder did it; for with doubler tongue
By what it fed on: and yet, within a month--
Of thine or mine, is most in Helena.
strike at me, that your arrow hath glanced.
How thou camest here thou mayst.
Have you no modesty, no maiden shame,
And, Proteus, we dare trust you in this kind,
Enter HELENA and Clown
Would thus have wrought you,--for the stone is mine--
An actor too, perhaps, if I see cause.
Let me but stand; I will not hurt your hearth.
Forsooth, a great arithmetician,
Thou wast provoked by thy bloody mind.
but for a fine, quaint, graceful and excellent
'Tis some mischance; the cry is very direful.
with thy uncovered body this extremity of the skies.
These antique fables, nor these fairy toys.
And last so long enough!
Ay, sir.
an erring barbarian and a supersubtle Venetian not
That he had not so trimm'd and dress'd his land
How now, Roderigo!
Let Titan rise as early as he dare,
And Gabriel's pumps were all unpink'd i' the heel;
Where none will sweat but for promotion,
I beseech you, remember--
When you are by at night. I do beseech you--
Come to redeem me? there's a fearful point!
Who, in your thoughts, merits fair Helen best,
when thou hast tired thyself in base comparisons,
You shall by that perceive him and his means:
What! am I dared and bearded to my face?
Most noble Caesar, shalt thou have report
We will make fast within a hallow'd verge.
Most worthy madam,
Exeunt all except TROILUS and ULYSSES
Enter the PRINCESS, and her train, a Forester, BOYET, ROSALINE, MARIA, and KATHARINE
Which if thou please to hide in this true bosom.
Consul! what consul?
By earth, she is not, corporal, there you lie.
Or wilt thou sleep? we'll have thee to a couch
Never to lie and take his natural rest
Exeunt RATCLIFF and the other Attendants
For stony limits cannot hold love out,
Where you may temper her by your persuasion
Good Sir Toby!
The observed of all observers, quite, quite down!
The poor mechanic porters crowding in
Drop in my neck: as it determines, so
First thrash the corn, then after burn the straw:
On your allegiance,
A speedier course than lingering languishment
I think that thou art just and think thou art not.
Be simple answerer, for we know the truth.
Become a deluge, overflow'd and drown'd;
For kissing, lady, not for such contempt.
cure of it not only saves your brother, but keeps
Nothing but jollity. The gods themselves,
O, let us hence; I stand on sudden haste.
And that no lawful means can carry me
up at the door of a brothel-house for the sign of
of me, there can be no kernel in this light nut; the
And that, my lord, I shall be loath to do:
to, you are a woman, go.
What with our help, what with the absent king,
Have I to-night fluster'd with flowing cups,
Yet pause awhile:
Which is the better man, the greater throw
Who hath not seen them, even with those wings
That beads of sweat have stood upon thy brow
God pardon them that are the cause of it!
Of all base passions, fear is most accursed.
That I am wise. I must have liberty
You always end with a jade's trick: I know you of old.
true prince may, for recreation sake, prove a false
By those that feel their sharpness:
Let me but bind it hard, within this hour
And I like Helen, till the Fates me kill.
Signior Hortensio, thus it stands with me:
doctor to such a man.
Sicinius Velutus, and I know not--'Sdeath!
I blame you not for praising Caesar so;
More rich for what they yielded.
And Warwick, doing what you gave in charge,
Would I had never seen her.
Awaked the sleeping rheum, and so by chance
She shall have it, my lord, if it be not my lord Paris.
By swaggering could I never thrive,
Wisdom and constancy, hath amazed me more
Now, if you can blush and cry 'guilty,' cardinal,
beats her heart, tears her hair, prays, curses; 'O
not of him in the court. Let me speak with the
Of pellmell havoc and confusion.
Hark! the land bids me tread no more upon't;
Exit Gentleman
My hour is almost come,
And to our sport.
I'll have no worse a name than Jove's own page;
Things at the worst will cease, or else climb upward
Howe'er unfortunate I miss'd my aim.
that is not guilty of his own death shortens not his own life.
thrusts me himself into the company of three or four
And that great minds, of partial indulgence
Pembroke and Stafford, you in our behalf
fool him black and blue: shall we not, Sir Andrew?
But to his foe supposed he must complain,
Nay, you may think my love was crafty love
Our trivial difference loud, we do commit
And enter in our ears like great triumphers
Desire his jewels and this other's house:
Well, well see't. Come, madam wife, sit by my side
You kill her double. Nay, present your hand:
Drown desperate sorrow in dead Edward's grave,
What shall I do to win my lord again?
To praise his faith which I would have dispraised.
Poison'd,--ill fare--dead, forsook, cast off:
Hath promised me to help me to another,
Exit
If not, my senses, better pleased with madness,
O thou dissembling cub! what wilt thou be
What would she find? Lavinia, shall I read?
I know not thy mistress; out on thy mistress!'
What, with me too, Thersites?
Who do prepare to meet him at the gates,
Thou hadst been a knave and flatterer.
His love and wisdom,
What late misfortune is befall'n King Edward?
To try a larger fortune.
Your nose says, no, you are not for it stands too right.
Hang there, my verse, in witness of my love:
of dropsies, that huge bombard of sack, that stuffed
My uncle practises more harm to me:
But, O malignant and ill-boding stars!
Be not acknown on 't; I have use for it.
O cruel, irreligious piety!
Catesby!
Come, swear it, damn thyself
Will this work?
Is goads, thorns, nettles, tails of wasps,
working-days: your grace is too costly to wear
But was a race of heaven: they are so still,
Adding withal how blest this land would be
He was your enemy, ever spake against
Knows not my feeble key of untuned cares?
Why, then, dame Margaret was ne'er thy joy.
sailor breaks a biscuit.
by my coming. Every man has his fault, and honesty
Prithee, put up.
It will be well.
Do, do: he'll but break a comparison or two on me;
Hath hither brought.
Passing through nature to eternity.
and admiring the nothing of it. So that in this
carries some stain of it: he is melancholy without
not be long; that the time may have all shadow and
Which never dreamt on aught but butcheries:
As when his virtues shining upon others
For this immediate levy, he commends
In giving him his right.
And now by law, as well as reverend age,
Of saucy and audacious eloquence.
But beggary and poor looks.
O mistress, villany hath made mocks with love,
And fair she is, if that mine eyes be true,
of rushes I am sure you are not prisoner.
Knowing she will not lose her wonted greatness,
To say there is no vice but beggary.
Come, down into the boat.
Gloucester's eye!
The same,
In this vile world? So, fare thee well.
Ay, or very falsely pocket up his report
From Athens is her house remote seven leagues;
great an opposition.' Say you so, say you so? I say
Plots have I laid, inductions dangerous,
I talk not of your soul: our compell'd sins
As tidings of this sight.
Led him, begg'd for him, saved him from despair;
I doubt some danger does approach you nearly:
that shall drive some of them to a non-come: only
Will you be gone?
Never sees horrid night, the child of hell,
Each one already blazing by our meeds,
I am sorry, then, you have so lost a father
Christian example? Why, revenge. The villany you
And mean to make her queen of England.
I laugh to see your ladyship so fond
There came divers of Antonio's creditors in my
As any ear can hear. Come, let's not weep.
a thing as 'tis. I can hardly forbear hurling things
And I'll beweep these comforts, worthy senators.
command at all hours.
returned: I could hardly entreat him back: he
And then, in speaking, not to incur the last,
Cousins, indeed; and by their uncle cozen'd
Thou wrong'st thyself, if thou shouldst strive to choose.
little more to say, sir, of his honesty: he has
Do it not with poison, strangle her in her bed, even
quotidian of love upon him.
As thou dost ruminate, and give thy worst of thoughts
[Within]                 Come I too late?
He held me last night at least nine hours
SCENE XII. Another part of the same.
That they who brought me in my master's hate
That live and feed upon your majesty.
Murder, as hating what himself hath done,
Thee here in dark to be his paramour?
I grant it, for thine own, whate'er it be.
Knocks go and come; God's vassals drop and die;
A kingdom for it was too small a bound;
Will't please you taste of what is here?
Man?
Good Signior Angelo, you must excuse us all;
Madam, your penance done, throw off this sheet,
Your wit makes wise things foolish: when we greet,
Some say that ever 'gainst that season comes
No shame but mine: I must, forsooth, be forced
Well, I am school'd: good manners be your speed!
But, what follow'd?
BISHOP
If ever mortal eyes do see them bolster
And, that once gotten, doubt not of large pay.
Must bide the touch; for, sir, at Shrewsbury,
Crowns in my purse I have and goods at home,
To have a giant's strength; but it is tyrannous
O, then my best blood turn
Our yoke and sufferance show us womanish.
Enter TUBAL
trick of it?
The concernancy, sir? why do we wrap the gentleman
As if we should forget we had no hands,
But thou hast sworn against religion,
To do this ruthless piece of butchery,
What means do you make to him?
Nay, 'tis no matter, sir, what he 'leges in Latin.
Attend his further pleasure.
To rob me of so rich a bottom here.
deputy's wife of the ward to thee. Go, you thing,
Looking before and after, gave us not
Here comes the holy legate of the pope.
Pray you, sir, do you know of this matter?
question, thou wilt be, if my cousin do not look
The instances that second marriage move
The duke's in council and your noble self,
That seem'd in eating him to hold him up,
Thou know'st, being stopp'd, impatiently doth rage;
Fall, and cease!
you of some conveyance: in the house you cannot
A sure destruction.
Of many desperate studies by his uncle,
In cruelty will I seek out my fame.
So doubly seconded with will and power,
When I did name her brothers, then fresh tears
There is no other way but to tell the king
Fear me not.
To be o'erpower'd; and wilt thou, pupil-like,
Go on; I'll follow thee.
SONG
Nor what he spake, though it lack'd form a little,
From fasting maids whose minds are dedicate
Like very sanctity, she did approach
Even so void is your false heart of truth.
Tigers, not daughters, what have you perform'd?
devils' additions, the names of fiends: but
Master, you look'd so longly on the maid,
Sleeps
Thou art too wild, too rude and bold of voice;
is: and there's her thrummed hat and her muffler
I was by at the opening of the fardel, heard the old
Withdraw thee, wretched Margaret: who comes here?
The best way is to slander Valentine
And with a corded ladder fetch her down;
That I essentially am not in madness,
I have no relish of them, but abound
Did pretty Jessica, like a little shrew,
Are, by the laws of Venice, confiscate
Why have those banish'd and forbidden legs
talk you of young Master Launcelot?
The subject of our watch.
Know the whole world, he is as valiant.
And wouldst thou turn our offers contrary?
O Peter, thou hast prevailed in right!
Let go the hand of that arch-heretic;
'The fairest, sweet'st, and best lies here,
For what I have I need not to repeat;
Would all were well! but that will never be
You tread upon my patience: but be sure
Now, by my life, this day grows wondrous hot;
The sweet degrees that this brief world affords
[Within]  If thy name be call'd Luce--Luce, thou hast
Come here about me, you my Myrmidons;
This is the monstruosity in love, lady, that the will
You will not bail me, then, sir?
To have nor eyes nor ears nor thought, then say
If you say ay, the king will not say no.
[Aside]                What will this come to?
As there comes light from heaven and words from breath,
Clarence still breathes; Edward still lives and reigns:
unmannerly sadness in his youth. I had rather be
Stay, Humphrey Duke of Gloucester: ere thou go,
for the command, I'll lay't upon you. Cassio knows
Thou art their soldier, and being bred in broils
Are you companion to the Count Rousillon?
Here comes the almanac of my true date.
My old bones ache: here's a maze trod indeed
Ay, and the captain of his horse, Count Rousillon.
That mine own use invites me to cut down,
And lessen'd be that small, God, I beseech thee!
That staggers thus my person. Exton, thy fierce hand
When she for thy repeal was suppliant,
As well the fear of harm, as harm apparent,
You have my consent. Let your wedding be to-morrow:
To take them in protection?
As, by our hands and this our present act,
My answer must be made. But I am arm'd,
Enter CLEOPATRA
Alas, you three, on me, threefold distress'd,
If thou dost love, my kindness shall incite thee
His daughter is to be brought by you to the supper.
Flourish. Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, AGRIPPA, with DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS, and others
Your message done, hie home unto my chamber,
So I lose none
have bad dreams.
I'll play the orator as well as Nestor,
No, I will not:
Sir, you have wrestled well and overthrown
Will have his will, and she must fall.
You, that are thus so tender o'er his follies,
Your father's heir must have your father's land.
What, boy!
And that this body, consecrate to thee,
'Commend me to your master'--and the cap
You may command us, sir.
Enter GADSHILL
Courage and comfort! all shall yet go well.
The fault's your own.
SCENE III. Friar Laurence's cell.
Infusing him with self and vain conceit,
So shall all the couples three
Exeunt
My dearest love,
To wreak the love I bore my cousin
I feel such sharp dissension in my breast,
Call Agamemnon head and general.
Exit
Six years we banish him, and he shall go.
Thy nimble, sulphurous flashes! O, how, Lychorida,
Where words are scarce, they are seldom spent in vain,
Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,
revolutions: these are begot in the ventricle of
then come back to my master's as soon as I can.
To blow on whom I please; for so fools have;
SCENE II. A room in CORIOLANUS'S house.
Let her who would be rid of him devise
We'll be before our welcome.
For torturers ingenious: it is I
Too great oppression for a tender thing.
Would the fountain of your mind were clear again,
That same Diomed's a false-hearted rogue, a most
Our Roman rites: Alarbus' limbs are lopp'd,
finds no other advantage in the process but only the
Ah, boy, Cornelia never with more care
Hath set the women on to this complaint:
My love is most immaculate white and red.
to tell us Cupid is a good hare-finder and Vulcan a
For flesh and blood, sir, white and red, you shall
My lord, I hear.
I knew him.
Advancing
You look not well, Signior Antonio;
Methinks I hear hither your husband's drum,
Exeunt
Exeunt MARIANA and ISABELLA
Madam, I desire your holy wishes.
I conjure thee by Rosaline's bright eyes,
Crook-knee'd, and dew-lapp'd like Thessalian bulls;
Exit
But I will rise there with so full a glory
Throw death upon thy sovereign's enemies.
That greatness should so grossly offer it:
Go to Ventidius.
I will, my lord.
name, accuse these men.
And mark what object did present itself:
O, by no means,
Mistress Elbow, being, as I say, with child, and
If they miscarry, we miscarry too.
And cracking the strong warrant of an oath,
Is poison to thy stomach.
To DIANA
the very stream of his life and the business he hath
To pay their awful duty to our presence?
Which then our leisure would not let us hear,
'Hey, Robin, jolly Robin,
Stray'd his affection in unlawful love?
I' faith, his hair is of a good colour.
Who struck this heat up after I was gone?
You are a merciful general. Our general bids you
And, soldiers, stay and lodge by me this night.
It should be challenged.
Camillo, this great sir will yet stay longer.
I hope all's for the best.
For Mowbray and myself are like two men
If not from hell? the devil is a niggard,
Enter ANTONIO
properer can we can our own than the riches of our
wouldst make an absolute courtier; and the firm
So Brutus should be found. I thank thee, Brutus,
Wilt break my heart?
I lay it naked to the deadly stroke,
I shall continue thankful.
How now, Captain Macmorris! have you quit the
so money comes withal.
Exit
'Twill grieve your grace my sons should call you father.
SCENE IV. Hall in Capulet's house.
She is young, and of a noble modest nature,
i' the cold ground. My brother shall know of it:
Aside
you rude rascals?
If each of you should take this course, how many
Seemeth their conference; their conceits have wings
Why, no, boy; nothing can be made out of nothing.
The triumph of his pledge.
Some friendship will it lend you 'gainst the tempest:
I thank thee for thy care and honest pains.
I never saw but Humphrey Duke of Gloucester
Are you contented to resign the crown?
to meet you on the way, and kiss your hand,
The purposes I bear; which are, or cease,
'Tis since the nuptials of Lucentio,
Makes me the bolder to salute my king
Return them, we are ready; and our daughter,
Those legs that brought me to a part of it!
my lady talk of it yesterday; and of a foolish
The shepherd's note since we have left our throne
garters of an indifferent knit: let them curtsy
That, Talbot dead, great York might bear the name.
That trick of state
There is no reason but I shall be blind.
And that were much he should; for he is given
Hung be the heavens with black, yield day to night!
This is of purpose laid by some that hate me--
Nay, come; for if they do approach the city, we
Shall for my legacy be sanctified
At a fair vestal throned by the west,
You witch me in it;
Thy name so buried in her.
Enter DESDEMONA with EMILIA
Or he that makes his generation messes
To add unto his sickness? No, my Brutus;
Ne'er heard I of a warlike enterprise
Set him before me; let me see his face.
And do not call them bastards.
For pity is the virtue of the law,
Stay and be secret, and myself will go.
abuses our young plants with carving 'Rosalind' on
With best advantage will deceive the time,
But as we stand in fear,--
Debate it at their leisure. Welcome, count;
Sweet flower, with flowers thy bridal bed I strew,--
'marry trap' with you, if you run the nuthook's
Let it be tenable in your silence still;
Noble madam,
After a storm; quaff'd off the muscadel
Master Page, as I am a man, there was one conveyed
But let the ruffian Boreas once enrage
were good pancakes and swore by his honour the
Alive, in triumph! and Mercutio slain!
In mine own cell, till thou didst seek to violate
About the world have times twelve thirties been,
Being strumpeted by thy contagion.
Now, this no more dishonours you at all
From whence, I think, you are come by miracle.
If not to heaven, then hand in hand to hell.
As gentle tell me, of what honour was
Thanks, gentle tribune, noble brother Marcus.
For Paris, was it? speak.
nothing are they welcome.
Did but convey unto our fearful minds
Let there be some more test made of my metal,
Is, I know how to curse. The red plague rid you
He that bereft thee, lady, of thy husband,
Than let him so be lost. O most kind maid,
Perfume for a lady's chamber;
Shall never sag with doubt nor shake with fear.
Thou art clerkly, thou art clerkly, Sir John. Was
Exit
The eldest of the three wrestled with Charles, the
Upon my sword.
And how quote you my folly?
Leave your prating: since these good men are
Sweet majesty, vouchsafe me,--
Many a good hanging prevents a bad marriage; and,
The fraughting souls within her.
How you may hurt yourself, ay, utterly
And watch'd him how he singled Clifford forth.
If you keep covenant. Had I not brought
take dust, like Mistress Mall's picture? why dost
In conflict that you get the sun of them.
Enter Poet, followed by LUCILIUS, TITINIUS, and LUCIUS
For sorrow ends not when it seemeth done.
Not so fair, boy, as well-favoured.
And our induction full of prosperous hope.
And watch our vantage in this business:
'Tween man and man: but thou, thou meagre lead,
I came unto your court for honour's cause,
For speculation turns not to itself,
When nature, being oppress'd, commands the mind
Noble lady!
My husband!
I'll try how you can sol, fa, and sing it.
But he does buy my injuries, to be friends;
And out of all these to restore the king,
The kings o' the earth for war; he hath assembled
Exit
Comfort, my lord; and so I take my leave.
Didst rob it of some taste of tediousness.
Why, art not thou the man?
As cause will be obey'd. Please you to march;
Reignier of France, I give thee kingly thanks,
Set him breast-deep in earth, and famish him;
I am not of that feather to shake off
Well, if ever I do see the merry days of desolation
All's one to him. What a past-saving slave is this!
And bear his charging of wooing, whatsoe'er.
never had any; or if he had, he had sworn it away
On you than any; so your hand and heart,
A shrewd contriver; and, you know, his means,
This ornament of knighthood, yea or no.
Farewell, good brother: we shall thrive, I trust.
No my lord;
Yet let her be a principality,
And break it to our hope. I'll not fight with thee.
To what is count's man: count's master is of
For many carriages he hath dispatch'd
He found it then;
me now, thou naughty varlet, tell me, where hast
How do you now?
Enter, from the cave, BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, ARVIRAGUS, and IMOGEN
Only, good master, while we do admire
suffer this rude knave now to knock him about the
They kill us for their sport.
Caesar to you; in plain dealing, Pompey, I shall
Exit MALVOLIO
I' faith, if he be not rotten before he die--as we
O ceremony, show me but thy worth!
Such a foe, good heavens!
Lascivious, wanton, more than well beseems
In favour was my brother, and he went
Why either were you ignorant to see't,
If she live long,
Will I make good against thee, arm to arm,
On whose bright crest Fame with her loud'st Oyes
You may deny that you were not the cause
Kate, the elder I wax, the better I shall appear:
Come, go we then together.
Methought that Gloucester stumbled; and, in falling,
Who, hearing of our Marcius' banishment,
It is; you lie, you lie:
Come, let me see what task I have to do.
Enter MACDUFF
My lord, the king your father.
And your horse now would make him an ass.
I made to her in marriage, and to decline
But riddle-like lives sweetly where she dies!
I'll do't before I speak,--that you make known
And be undone by 'em!
Dying or ere they sicken.
I pray you, one of you question yond man
Many a morning hath he there been seen,
Launcelot, father; for the young gentleman,
And when the lion fawns upon the lamb,
As I am confident and kind to thee.
Alas, sweet lady, what imports this song?
Which would increase his evil. He that depends
Will you do this, keep close within your chamber.
When I have slain thee with my proper hand,
At the discovery of most dangerous treason
yourselves. Speak to 'em, fool.
Are you native of this place?
The Cardinal of Winchester forbids:
I think so.
Therefore paucas pallabris; let the world slide: sessa!
He.
Here is the place, my lord; good my lord, enter:
O serpent heart, hid with a flowering face!
As heart can think or courage execute.
Keep your word, Phebe, that you'll marry me,
An Antony, that I might do you service
If black, why, Nature, drawing of an antique,
whose names yet run smoothly in the even road of a
In mind and feature: I persuade me, from her
For bringing wood in slowly. I'll fall flat;
If it were yours by none of all these ways,
Nor would I wish you.
To tell the secrets of my prison-house,
Enter PROTEUS
Save you, fair queen!
Thou sayest true, hostess; and he slanders thee most grossly.
Or else I will discover nought to thee.
In honourable fashion.
The imperial seat, to virtue consecrate,
Why then, thus it is:
Let grief and sorrow still embrace his heart
You will do it?
Will you lie down and rest upon the cushions?
Caesar doth bear me hard; but he loves Brutus:
For daws to peck at: I am not what I am.
the provost.
Where? when? what vizard? why demand you this?
Drum beats
Counsel o' the war, but at his nurse's tears
Nothing but that; move still, still so,
So soon did lose his seat and all at once
With them, the two brave bears, Warwick and Montague,
Have follow'd your sad steps.
A noise of hunters heard. Enter divers Spirits,  in shape of dogs and hounds, and hunt them about, PROSPERO and ARIEL setting them on
He sent command to the lord mayor straight
To plot, contrive, or complot any ill
his majesty.
Hamlet comes back: what would you undertake,
The freckled cowslip, burnet and green clover,
bound to him as I. Besides this nothing that he so
See who it is: and, now the battle's ended,
Hark! he stirs: shall I strike?
By heaven, I would do it.
So does it no man else. Met'st thou my posts?
That live in her; when liver, brain and heart,
It seems you loved not her, to leave her token.
There is no power in the tongue of man
Enter WARWICK, the Mayor of Coventry, two Messengers, and others upon the walls
Exit. Alarums
Now, the gods crown thee!
Come, come, we'll prompt you.
Not so, not so;
Covering discretion with a coat of folly;
Am bold to show myself a forward guest
How much she loves me: O, the kindest Kate!
Re-enter HOLOFERNES, SIR NATHANIEL, MOTH, COSTARD, and others
Or thy precedent services are all
Call Burgundy. Cornwall and Albany,
And show'd thou makest some tender of my life,
I thank you for your pains:
Exit
For we are old, and on our quick'st decrees
The vaulty heaven so high above our heads:
Why, she hath given you a letter.
In doing this for's country: athwart the lane,
The hour steals on; I pray you, sir, dispatch.
Yea, overshines ourself.
Makes me to ask you for my purse? It grieves me
Enter DUCHESS OF YORK
you, he hath a fair daughter, and to-morrow is her
I most fehemently desire you you will also look that
easier to be played on than a pipe? Call me what
Or what is now received: I witness to
Bid them home:
No,'tis his kind of speech: he did not mock us.
Not fit to govern and rule multitudes,
As roused with rage with rage doth sympathize,
Cassius, be constant:
If Hercules and Lichas play at dice
The demi-Atlas of this earth, the arm
Do the low-rated English play at dice;
This seal'd-up counsel. There's thy guerdon; go.
For saying nothing; when, I am very sure,
Exeunt QUEEN KATHARINE and her Attendants
yourself good and not to grace me. Believe then, if
My sovereign, I confess your royal graces,
The justice of your bearts will thereto add
Now, by my faith, lords, 'twas a glorious day:
[Aside]  To cart her rather: she's too rough for me.
Thou hast no speculation in those eyes
I do beseech you, pardon me; I may not show it.
Puts off his helmet and hangs his shield behind him
We'll play with them the first boy for a thousand ducats.
You have brought
Hush, master! here's some good pastime toward:
And leave your children, wives and you in peace.
And paint your face and use you like a fool.
Our house is hell, and thou, a merry devil,
Solemn music. Enter, as in an apparition,  SICILIUS LEONATUS, father to Posthumus Leonatus,  an old man, attired like a warrior; leading in  his hand an ancient matron, his wife, and mother  to Posthumus Leonatus, with music before them:  then, after other music, follow the two young  Leonati, brothers to Posthumus Leonatus, with  wounds as they died in the wars. They circle Posthumus Leonatus round, as he lies sleeping
To what we wildly do, so we profess
A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
One noble man that hath one spark of fire,
The blind and bloody soldier with foul hand
The gods be good unto us!
And how she was beguiled and surprised,
Though Bassianus be the emperor's brother.
Go, fellow, get thee home, provide some carts
none of these mad mustachio purple-hued malt-worms;
Am I to fear, or none.
It is no time to discourse, so Chrish save me: the
My friend, I spy some pity in thy looks:
Who attends us there?
Our royal master 's murder'd!
The world may read in me: my body's mark'd
This was her first remembrance from the Moor:
With no less honour to the Antiates
Go in to Troy, and say there, Hector's dead:
Much in the letters; nothing in the praise.
CYMBELINE and IMOGEN come forward
Art thou not sorry for these heinous deeds?
The knowledge of your mistress home, I grant
A flourish with drums and trumpets. Exeunt
No, my good lord; I am the very man,--
With how depraved a quality--O Regan!
Though more to know could not be more to trust,
Enter GOWER
And damn'd be him that first cries, 'Hold, enough!'
Thus Thisby ends:
Did you send to him, sir?
'Tis neither here nor there.
The words of Mercury are harsh after the songs of
To cure him of this evil--But, hark! what noise?
Set me against Aufidius and his Antiates;
And Rice ap Thomas with a valiant crew;
The trap is laid for me!
Do you not know I am a woman? when I think, I must
Here's a change indeed!
Than answer my waked wrath!
To death with mortal joy.
It from the bearer, 'tis a sufferance panging
Did you not tell me this fat man was dead?
two cods and, giving her them again, said with
Thou shinest in every tear that I do weep:
That swear'st grace o'erboard, not an oath on shore?
Get me an iron crow, and bring it straight
Exeunt BUCKINGHAM and SOMERSET
Though thou abhorr'dst in us our human griefs,
gyves on; for indeed I had the most of them out of
Nay, Eleanor, then must I chide outright:
Have moved his highness to commit me now.
Come, Warwick, take the time; kneel down, kneel down:
Consort with me in loud and dear petition,
Exeunt CLOTEN and First Lord
prononcer ces mots devant les seigneurs de France
Tush, I will stir about,
They that my trust must grow to, live not here:
Lechery?
Well, I will undertake it. What beard were I best
Whoe'er I woo, myself would be his wife.
By course of justice!
Here is my bed: sleep give thee all his rest!
Sennet. Exeunt all except BRUTUS and CASSIUS
[Coming forward]  Why, how now, lords!
Enter HOTSPUR, WORCESTER, and DOUGLAS
You shall hear more ere morning.
noble Marcius.
I'm worse than mad: I have kept back their foes,
Nay then, two treys, and if you grow so nice,
You make strong party, or defend yourself
Can in this book of beauty read 'I love,'
fool, and a coward, as you then reported him to be?
Must not in haste abuse--if it be true,
To make my small elves coats, and some keep back
Doth teach me answers for deliverance!
By what means got, I leave to your own conscience--
For one poor grain or two, to leave unburnt,
of all cess.
But find supply immediate. Get you gone:
flowers and smile upon his fingers' ends, I knew
And go the fools among.
You'll think it strange if I should marry her.
Than when thou wert protector to thy King.
She is all happy as the fairest of all,
Enter GLOUCESTER and his Servingmen, in mourning cloaks
and doublets.
hither. If thou be'st valiant,-- as, they say, base
O, treble woe
I did not then entreat to have her stay;
The king hath granted every article:
And presently, when you have drawn your number,
That lord that counsell'd thee
my son.' 'My daughter.' 'He killed my cousin
Old Escanes, whom Helicanus late
As fox to lamb, as wolf to heifer's calf,
From son to son, some four or five descents
Or that we quit this place; let's draw our weapons.
Cousin, throw up your gage; do you begin.
For I attend here: but I'll see you soon.
Commit a thing so monstrous, to dismantle
Was foully snatch'd.
thy sovereign.
Let me be cruel, not unnatural:
Caesar must think,
woman; sometime the philosopher.
Beaten the maids a-row and bound the doctor
Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb,
He loved his mother dearly.
A match!
Gentlemen and friends, I thank you for your pains:
Myself the crying fellow did pursue,
That heaven and earth may strike their sounds together,
In the fair multitude of those her hairs!
Yonder comes news. A wager they have met.
pox, leave thy damnable faces, and begin. Come:
son the whole name of the war: he hath in this
Which torments me to conceal. By villany
So many horrid ghosts. O now, who will behold
happy hours are done and past, and his estate
Made him my book wherein my soul recorded
Such unconstant starts are we like to have from
with golden fire, why, it appears no other thing to
How that the cardinal did entreat his holiness
Amen.
Nay, it is ten times strange.
Great Jupiter be praised! Lucius is taken.
'Tis noble Kent, your friend.
thousand salads ere we light on such another herb.
Whether it like me or no, I am a courtier. Seest
not a holiday fool there but would give a piece
There is your money that I had to keep.
Pray you, who does the wolf love?
It may be so: if he have robb'd these men,
their letters to meet me in arms by the ninth of the
of it: he came of an errand to me from Parson Hugh.
Good friends, sweet friends, let me not stir you up
A chilling sweat o'er-runs my trembling joints:
And bring them after in the best advantage.
they're half fish, half flesh: a plague on them,
Come, let's see the event.
Please it your grace to be advertised
First, sir, I pray,
I sent the king? Is there no way to cure this?
in you is a virtue of a good wing, and I like the wear well.
And module of confounded royalty.
Would you buy her, that you inquire after her?
What tidings send our scouts? I prithee, speak.
As, heaven it knows, I would not have him speed.
Soft, Caesar!
Exeunt PETRUCHIO and KATHARINA severally
As hush as death, anon the dreadful thunder
And never rise until my tears and prayers
But here must end the story of my life;
Enter BUCKINGHAM from his arraignment; tip-staves  before him; the axe with the edge towards him;  halberds on each side: accompanied with LOVELL, VAUX, SANDS, and common people
Diminish'd to her cock; her cock, a buoy
Should I repent me: but once put out thy light,
Madam wife, they say that I have dream'd
Look'st thou pale, France? do not let go thy hand.
Mine honourable mistress.
Camillo for the minister to poison
Ask nothing, give it him, it foals me, straight,
And their executors, the knavish crows,
New horrors come upon him,
Most worthy prince, as yours, is true Guiderius:
Of guns and drums and wounds,--God save the mark!--
If ever you disturb our streets again,
That could be found.
And here she stands, touch her whoever dare;
Agamemnon is a fool; Achilles is a fool; Thersites
Then I will come to my mother by and by. They fool
brave Titus:
O general,
Re-enter KING JOHN and KING PHILIP, with their powers, severally
Three foot of it doth hold: bad world the while!
Fear'd by their breed and famous by their birth,
And pray thee take this mercy to provide
Work, work your thoughts, and therein see a siege;
looked on.
Of an old tear that is not wash'd off yet:
The gods are deaf to hot and peevish vows:
There to remain till the king's further pleasure
But yet I have no desire to it.
very rogues, now they be out of service.
Our Rome hath such a soldier.'
Good, now, hold thy tongue.
A solemn combination shall be made
This gentleman of mine hath served me long:
are ambitious for poor knaves' caps and legs: you
For a quart of ale is a dish for a king.
And nothing more, may fitly like your grace,
And thrice again, to make up nine.
bounty's foe;
Foes to my rest and my sweet sleep's disturbers
What error leads must err; O, then conclude
Knocks
Did follow to his urn.
'Item: She doth talk in her sleep.'
And press'd in with this caution. First, methought
To match with her that brings no vantages.
Welcome, ye warlike Goths; welcome, Lucius;
I never did like molestation view
SCENE I. Rome. Before the Capitol; the Senate sitting above.
I have done no harm. But I remember now
If you be ta'en, we then should see the bottom
Who lack not virtue, no, nor power, but that
As others would ambitiously receive it.
Would! nay, I will.
Doth make the fault the worse by the excuse,
And under-honest, in self-assumption greater
Where is my father?
Arise to let him in: he is call'd up.
His heart, like an agate, with your print impress'd,
Whose sons lie scattered on the bleeding ground;
Enter DIOMEDES, TROILUS following
They sing:
O heavenly mingle! Be'st thou sad or merry,
Whose virtue and obedience doth this instant
Traitor!
And so, I hope, he came by't. Back my ring:
That nothing do but meditate on blood,--
My lord, you know I love you.
Go fetch me something: I'll break ope the gate.
Thou shalt not be the worse for me: there's gold.
Some must go off: and yet, by these I see,
My lady's a Cataian, we are politicians, Malvolio's
These griefs and losses have so bated me,
Believe it, my lord, in mine own direct knowledge,
Who have you offended, masters, that you are thus
Where there's no profit. I prithee, to our rock;
The better part of my affections would
As she in beauty, education, blood,
Ay, my liege, so please you give us leave.
Fell sorrow's tooth doth never rankle more
SCENE X. Between the two camps.
Remember I have done thee worthy service;
For I myself at this time have employ'd him.
Exeunt FORD, PAGE, SHALLOW, DOCTOR CAIUS, and SIR HUGH EVANS
shall never laugh but in that maid's company! But
To come between our sentence and our power,
While I was there.
appoint them a place of meeting, wherein it is at
take heed, honest Gobbo, or, as aforesaid, 'honest
A traitor to my God, my king, and me:
Against thy oath and true allegiance sworn,
Here come those I have done good to against my will,
Or else you are that shrewd and knavish sprite
Whatever torment you do put me to.
Good my lord, be good to me; your honour is accounted
And call'd it Rougemont: at which name I started,
I hope all will be well. We must be patient: but I
Measure us back to Naples? Keep in Tunis,
You shall confess that you are both deceived.
Ay, now my sovereign speaketh like himself;
And shall I couple hell? O, fie! Hold, hold, my heart;
I do.
My lord?
If this be true, which makes me pale to read it?
Of me for jests; but now I'll set my teeth,
DON
And to survey his dead and earthly image,
Run when you will, the story shall be changed:
In storms of fortune; for in her ray and brightness
for't, he will supply us easily; if he covetously
The inclining Desdemona to subdue
Who, busied in his majesty, surveys
Let them have cushions by you. You are plebeians,
But once before I spoke to the purpose: when?
And what I do imagine let that rest.
The skies, the fountains, every region near
Exeunt
Before I freely speak my mind herein,
For one his like, there would be something failing
Love sought is good, but given unsought better.
[Within]  Who's there?
Reignier, her father, to the king of France
Thy praises in his kingdom's great defence,
That knew the stars as I his characters;
That, otherwise than noble nature did,
But yet my nature could not bear it so.
The Douglas is; and I beseech your grace
No more talking on't; let it be done: away, away!
You embrace your charge too willingly. I think this
He may mean more than we poor men do know:
Are all things fitting for that royal time?
Her parentage; being demanded that,
To EDGAR
My lord, to step out of these dreary dumps,
For this damsel, I must keep her at the park: she
thou hast blushed extempore. Thou hadst fire and
Five hundred ducats, villain, for a rope?
His fame lives in the world, his shame in you.
Who's there, I trow! Come near the house, I pray you.
incarnate.
The state or fortune fall into my keeping,
Prepare we for our marriage--on which day,
Hast thou of me as she is for a wife.
[Aside]  How like a fawning publican he looks!
'Tis but the shadow of a wife you see,
As Hercules
Ah, Marcus, Marcus! brother, well I wot
This ravenous tiger, this accursed devil;
We lack'd your counsel and your help tonight.
Soft! whither away so fast?
Once more I come to know of thee, King Harry,
safely be admitted.
Enter ANTONIO and PANTHINO
he made it seem in the trial of his several friends.
The law against it! But that her tender shame
come to me and prings me pread and salt yesterday,
We will speak further.
Although thou hast been conduct of my shame.
The noblest hateful love, that e'er I heard of.
We'll borrow place of him.
are no worse, if imagination amend them.
Enter a Clown, with a basket, and two pigeons in it
Come your ways, sir; come.
None are so surely caught, when they are catch'd,
Stands Macbeth thus amazedly?
Though Richard my life's counsel would not hear,
To say the truth, it is your policy
If you will lead these graces to the grave
Ay, there it is.
Be it as you shall privately determine,
We are come to you to do a good office, master parson.
I crave your pardon. Soon at five o'clock,
What's your will, sir? what's your will?
Trib, trib, fairies; come; and remember your parts:
If she be fair and wise, fairness and wit,
Presenting a letter
In his own conduct, purposely to take
Sing, boy; my spirit grows heavy in love.
Truly, sir, to see your wife. Is she at home?
In troth, I think thou wouldst not.
The secrets of my heart.
A man throng'd up with cold: my veins are chill,
It was the swift celerity of his death,
SCENE VII. London. The palace.
To draw my answer from thy articles?
The name of hardiness and policy.
[Aside]  But when the fox hath once got in his nose,
But now I know thy mind; thou dost suspect
Find him, and bring him hither.
To marry Paris: Wednesday is to-morrow:
To thank thee for the love thou show'dst the king,
Find this grand liquor that hath gilded 'em?
Enter FRIAR LAURENCE
If your more ponderous and settled project
O, loving uncle, kind Duke of Gloucester,
I must attend the duke at dinner: by two o'clock I
Such poor, such bare, such lewd, such mean attempts,
and children are even now to be afresh lamented.
fellowship in thee, nor thou camest not of the blood
But I beseech your grace that I may know
If thou do pardon, whosoever pray,
That sticks on filthy deeds.
kitchen-wench; marry, she had a better love to
Yet that which seems the wound to kill,
We'll hear him what he says. Whence are you?
I had rather be a dog, and bay the moon,
No.
Hark further.
In an ungracious mouth is but profane.
A Death's face in a ring.
And when I lived, I was your other wife:
Before the expiration of thy time,
the same food, hurt with the same weapons, subject
Would not have touch'd, would not have stain'd with blood:
as once I was, and had but this fish painted,
Let floods o'erswell, and fiends for food howl on!
are come to search the house. Shall I let them in?
What's he?
Exit FENTON
Exit, pursued by a bear
Then let us take a ceremonious leave
Exit Servant
That! what?
Nor hold him up with hopes; I am not for him:
To shepherds looking on their silly sheep,
Yet heavens have glory for this victory!
And there is my Lord of Worcester and a head
moon; and let men say we be men of good government,
Advance thy halbert higher than my breast,
[Aside to ARIEL]  My tricksy spirit!
But I have sent for him to answer this;
A thousand pieces!
SONG.
Harry le Roy.
Disloyal?
All the commerce that you have had with Troy
letters yourself: and so, sir, I'll commend you to my master.
Lord Timon's?
O, no, no, no.
opinion so easily: she was in his company at Page's
But as I travell'd hither through the land,
Or know not what we are.
To be up after midnight and to go to bed then, is
Think you so?
O, madam, my old heart is crack'd, it's crack'd!
Then are we all undone.
The archbishop.
Ho! hearts, tongues, figures, scribes, bards,
I pardon him, as God shall pardon me.
At gaming, swearing, or about some act
Reads
perform it.
And make a sop of all this solid globe:
Unfriended, new-adopted to our hate,
He hath an uncle here in Messina will be very much
Adieu! tears exhibit my tongue. Most beautiful
Jeweller: You know me, Apemantus?
Base, fearful and despairing Henry!
Forgive me, Valentine: if hearty sorrow
hope neither.
To effect this marriage, so it please my lord.
When he comes back; you demi-puppets that
I had rather be alone.
Thy father's father wore it,
Lest that the infection of his fortune take
Nimble mischance, that art so light of foot,
Or but a sickly part of one true sense
condition, and what credit I have with the duke.
I am fire and air; my other elements
To mow 'em down before me: but if I spared any
thy praise.
Our most disloyal lady, for, as she hath
How now, Thersites! what lost in the labyrinth of
The rarest of all women.
Great Hercules is presented by this imp,
Well, praised be the gods for thy foulness!
They say that Love hath not an eye at all.
Than dogs that are as often beat for barking
And being fed by us you used us so
Follow, I pray you.
Nay, come, tell Iras hers.
Master Barnardine!
ANTIPHOLUS
No, Regan, thou shalt never have my curse:
But me more good, to see so great a lord
Or else new form'd 'em; having both the key
cannot be able to express it.
This gentleman, whom I call Polydore,
But while 'tis spoke each turn away her face.
To cry, good joy: good joy, my lord and lady!
Did you find me in yourself, sir? or were you
With a bare bodkin? who would fardels bear,
His mind so venomously, that burning shame
ANTIPHOLUS
I muse my mother
Enter KING HENRY VIII and SUFFOLK
By Jupiter, an angel! or, if not,
Make you a wholesome answer; my wit's diseased: but,
For we are soft as our complexions are,
And grapple with him ere he comes so nigh.
In some reclusive and religious life,
That severs day from night.
Exit
He'ld fetch us in; yet is't not probable
Thy cruelty in execution
Away with these disgraceful wailing robes!
[Aside to DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS]  What means this?
the very ice of chastity is in them.
and Signior Benedick, my dear friend Leonato hath
And, would you represent our queen aright,
Gentle and fair, your brother kindly greets you:
What woman is, yea, what she cannot choose
Not Gloucester's death, nor Hereford's banishment
Unwilling I agreed. Alas! too soon,
Now I perceive they have conjoin'd all three
Knocking within
We'll strive to bear it for your worthy sake
Enter a Messenger
The lion dying thrusteth forth his paw,
And that we have a curse in having her:
We have done our obsequies: come, lay him down.
Whither, my lord? from bought and sold Lord Talbot;
in some of your coats for two pence.
And come, young Cato; let us to the field.
He breathes, my lord. Were he not warm'd with ale,
speech we had to such a purpose.
Thou gavest to Cassio.
If not, our swords shall plead it in the field.
And the exchange my brother! Here, in the sands,
mayor's sword borne before us.
The jaws of darkness do devour it up:
The most disdain'd of fortune.
Traduced for levity; and 'tis said in Rome
How! dare not! do not. Do you know, and dare not?
Take on himself the sovereignty thereof:
As day does to your eye.
[Aside]          What from Antioch?
Good morrow to your lordship.
No, no, I am as ugly as a bear;
not mad indeed? or do you but counterfeit?
Rememberest thou any that have died on't?
Enter KENT, disguised
Of all mad matches never was the like.
a fair hot wench in flame-coloured taffeta, I see no
And speak to him in many sorts of music
Set down, set down your honourable load,
And they, 'twas they, that did her all this wrong.
[Reads]  'Thou killest me like a rogue and a villain.'
Who shall begin?
Most putrefied core, so fair without,
If we no more meet till we meet in heaven,
I pray, sir, tell me, is it possible
To let thy tongue detect thy base-born heart?
which sold the towns in France; he that made us pay
only, Mistress Ford, in the simple
I' the right and strength o' the commons,' be it either
We are coming thither: gracious England hath
you are the first-born; but the same tradition
becomes you; for, out of question, you were born in
Pardon me, Margaret; pardon me, sweet son:
Exeunt
Your right of birth, your empery, your own.
Know I these men that come along with you?
This factious bandying of their favourites,
have been sharp and sententious; pleasant without
News, news from heaven! Marcus, the post is come.
him, Kate.
To hazard life and rescue you from him
That show of such an exercise may colour
The virtue that possession would not show us
The deeds of justest men.
That will never be
Give me the letter; I will look on it.
I pray thee, if it stand with honesty,
Too nice, and yet too true!
on crutches till he had one.
Of burning youth.
To sort our nobles from our common men.
Brags of his substance, not of ornament:
Only he hath not yet subscribed this:
Away, begone; the sport is at the best.
Moist Hesperus hath quench'd his sleepy lamp,
Ay, now begin our sorrows to approach:
swashers. I am boy to them all three: but all they
head, 'tis pride: but why, why? let him show us the
We were to question further: but I now
Exit GLOUCESTER
Wherein the fortune of ten thousand men
mouth; this will shake your shaking, I can tell you,
go hard with you.
There's but one down; the son is fled.
Blue coats to tawny coats. Priest, beware your beard,
It must appear in other ways than words,
Sit with my cousin; lend him your kind pains
Shouts within
one, I tell you, that will not miss you morning nor
Tybalt, Lucio and the lively Helena.' A fair
Save you, gentleman.
I'll give my reasons,
Is that we scarce are men and you are gods.
For shape, for bearing, argument and valour,
But must my sons be slaughter'd in the streets,
The fortune of the day quite turn'd from him,
Ay, what else? and but I be deceived
Therefore doth heaven divide
What, stain'd with blood!
Welcome, my lord	how far off lies your power?
Unless you play the pious innocent,
And the creature run from the cur? There thou
Letters should not be known; riches, poverty,
That's somewhat sudden:
Alarum. The Romans are beat back to their trenches. Re-enter MARCIUS cursing
A proclaim'd prize! Most happy!
So do each lord, and either greet him not,
Since he could draw a sword, and is ill school'd
Perceive I speak sincerely, and high note's
that she may be the better prepared for an answer,
A credulous father! and a brother noble,
Of its own fail, restraining aid to Timon;
I pray you, tarry: pause a day or two
Then 'tis but reason that I be released
Then, window, let day in, and let life out.
That our superfluous lackeys and our peasants,
Disasters in the sun; and the moist star
'Gainst thee, thou lamb, that standest as his prey.
hallowed and brought a benediction to the buyer:
Can do all this that he hath promised?
The more degenerate and base art thou,
You may be pleased to catch at mine intent
Enter PISTOL
Here's gold. Go, suck the subtle blood o' the grape,
Dromio, nor thou?
He stretch'd him, and, with one hand on his dagger,
Teach us some fence!
But I will tarry; the fool will stay,
I have a brother is condemn'd to die:
Or how stolen from the dead.
bestowed? Do you hear, let them be well used; for
eternal food to his jealousy.
And bow'd his eminent top to their low ranks,
The coward horse that bears me fail and die!
Can you still dream and pore and thereon look?
What news, AEneas, from the field to-day?
And, in thy closet pent up, rue my shame,
And, part, being prompted by your present trouble,
And he will fill thy wishes to the brim
Of the false sweet bait that we lay for it.
Why, he had none.
As once Europa did at lusty Jove,
Hilloa, loa!
SCENE IV. The Tower of London.
It were no less; but yet I'll make a pause.
will be forth. Come you to me at night; you shall
It fails not yet, but flourishes in thee
And wherefore not ships?
The which no sooner had his prowess confirm'd
unpitifully, methought.
True, and they are to meddle with none but the
Among the nettles at the elder-tree
And with an accent tuned in selfsame key
Admits no orifex for a point as subtle
But beg one favour at thy gracious hand,
I shall indue you with: meantime but ask
Eleven, sir.
That, face to face and royal eye to eye,
Should once set footing in your generous bosoms?
Nay, do not think I flatter;
Leave us to cure this cause.
SCENE II. The palace.
kill'd him.
wretched corse, of wretched soul bereft:
The turbulent surge shall cover: thither come,
particular additions; he is as valiant as the lion,
I cannot fight upon this argument;
Think'st thou that duty shall have dread to speak,
As if they saw some wondrous monument,
No, good sir;
I go, I go; look how I go,
Pluck out his eyes.
Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
My lord, your brother John is ta'en in flight,
Now, sister, what's the comfort?
Who heard me to deny it or forswear it?
Of my young Harry. O that it could be proved
She will, she will; justice hath liquored her. We
our melancholy upon your head!
Bonfires in France forthwith I am to make,
For if I do, I'll mar the young clerk's pen.
Exit
Do give thee five-fold blazon: not too fast:
This blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this England,
They sound a parley. Enter two Senators with others on the walls
To kill him, Clitus. Look, he meditates.
My cousin means Signior Benedick of Padua.
The memory be green, and that it us befitted
Exit IRAS. A noise within
And lose advantage, which doth ever cool
Where are my tears? rain, to lay this wind, or
bilbo, in the circumference of a peck, hilt to
Whether it be through force of your report,
And this may help to thicken other proofs
Misprising what they look on, and her wit
But, soft! no bedfellow!--O god s and goddesses!
Exeunt
[Aside]  Or rather, of stealing a cade of herrings.
And this is false you burden me withal.
With what a sorrow Cromwell leaves his lord.
Attend you here the door of our stern daughter?
Ay, my good lord.
The dint of pity: these are gracious drops.
Know Banquo was your enemy.
But thus condition'd: thou shalt build from men;
Our scions, put in wild and savage stock,
Dull, unmindful villain,
I'll never--
I will run no base humour: here, take the
Zenelophon; and he it was that might rightly say,
Thy wit is a very bitter sweeting; it is a most
With lusty sinews, throwing it aside
Marry, sir, you must send the ass upon the horse,
And in that vow we have forsworn our books.
[Awaking]  And run through fire I will for thy sweet sake.
We'll mannerly demand thee of thy story,
To think that Caesar bears such rebel blood
And stolen the impression of her fantasy
Like a kind host, the Dauphin and his powers:
Should I do so, I should belie my thoughts:
Valance of Venice gold in needlework,
To give some labourers room.
Swear by the duty that you owe to God--
Because a bard of Ireland told me once
Come, sir, come;
And honest Casca, we have the falling sickness.
I have then sinned against his experience and
Shall be lamented, pitied and excused
Thou comest not to be made a scorn in Rome:
What, John! Robert! John!
The follower of so poor a gentleman.
Welcome, good Messala.
If heaven had pleased to have given me longer life
Come, come, Nerissa; for I long to see
if bawdy talk offend you, we'll have very little of
ACT V
The nobles in great earnestness are going
More than the world enjoys.
Some comet or unusual prodigy?
And yet the steer, the heifer and the calf
Lucius hath wrote already to the emperor
It follows then the cat must stay at home:
Sir Humphrey Stafford and h is brother's death
Ay, if you thought your love not cast away.
[Reads]  'which, as I remember, hight Costard,'--
My lord, you must tell us where the body is, and go
for the phrase!
impudent nation. Fare ye well, sir; I am for France
This harness'd masque and unadvised revel,
ACT I
Lean famine, quartering steel, and climbing fire;
Then must my sea be moved with her sighs;
Ay, there, there.
I stand here for him: what to him from England?
Directly seasons him his enemy.
We lose it not, so long as we can smile.
How now, Tubal! what news from Genoa? hast thou
One horse, my lord, he brought even now.
commanded out of the chamber; only this methought I
Whose double bosoms seem to wear one heart,
It shall be still thy true love's recompense:
Happily he's the second time come to them; for they
iniquity, stealing away from his father with his
Let him depart before we need his help.
In the affliction of these terrible dreams
I was going, sir,
Unless I be relieved by prayer,
Ay, with celerity, find Hector's purpose
A pox on't, let it go; 'tis but a drum.
That my disports corrupt and taint my business,
I'll tell you what you shall do. Our general's wife
That's seal'd in approbation? You, Lord Escalus,
And my good friend, thy voluntary oath
He were as much more villain: you, my lord,
SCENE VII. London. Smithfield.
What tongueless blocks were they! would not they speak?
This is the imposthume of much wealth and peace,
sweet sorrow,
Of what should stead her most?
The most replenish'd villain in the world,
My tongue should stumble in mine earnest words;
It is my arm.
Here stands my other son, a banished man,
The issue of the exploit. Go, Hercules!
May honourable peace attend thy throne!
He should not humour me. I will this night,
And welcome, general: and ye're welcome all.
Would I were with him, wheresome'er he is, either in
I have said too much unto a heart of stone
Look'd he or red or pale, or sad or merrily?
friends, it shall be so far forth friendly
Take heed; for he holds vengeance in his hands,
'Tis mightiest in the mightiest: it becomes
I writ at random, very doubtfully.
Thou know'st I have power
Save you, sir.
For these two hours, Rosalind, I will leave thee.
But never hope to know why I should marry her.
Now, afore God! this reverend holy friar,
I have offended reputation,
I know not; but I think it was not he.
One vice, but of a minute old, for one
On Lammas-eve at night shall she be fourteen;
A huge half-moon, a monstrous cantle out.
SONG
lion's claws. And, most dear actors, eat no onions
And she alone were cold: whereat I, wretch,
Sir John, I prithee, leave the prince and me alone:
The sudden breach on't.
With a good leg and a good foot, uncle, and money
I am a fool
I said before, that which is the strength of their
Whene'er we come to our account.
Know, then,
Trumpets sounded, and the coffin laid in the tomb
That ever was prince's child. Happy what follows!
too short,
Ay, of a snail; for though he comes slowly, he
And I, that haply take them from him now,
Sweet poetry and Tully's Orator.
Yea, but I doubt they will be too hard for us.
Make no collection of it: let him show
Peace then! no words.
Exit
him up ever since he was three years old, and his
Ay, two hours together.
To move is to stir; and to be valiant is to stand:
Shall we resolve to woo these girls of France?
Your wisdom may inform you.
Hath Thetis' birth-child on the heavens bestow'd:
Besides, we'll cut the throats of those we have,
Doth shine upon the dead man's earthy cheeks,
The one is filling still, never complete;
Cried, 'Via! we will do't, come what will come;'
shalt have five thousand welcomes. But, sirrah, how
But Romeo may not: more validity,
With full and holy rite be minister'd,
Keep comfort to you; and this morning see
I have so; because it is an open room and good for winter.
he be perjured, see you now, his reputation is as
Ay, to see meat fill knaves and wine heat fools.
Play'd foul play with our oaths: your beauty, ladies,
Those waters from me which I would have stopp'd;
Quicken a rock, and make you dance canary
When wheat is green, when hawthorn buds appear.
Were to remember that the present need
Let not your private discord keep away
To have her, or no. Go; say the woman told me so.
Let her have your voices.
Now, for our consciences, the arms are fair,
hath he provided this music?
Now, perjured Henry! wilt thou kneel for grace,
Speak; I am bound to hear.
If she unmask her beauty to the moon:
That I profess myself in banqueting
It is certain, corporal, that he is married to Nell
with you,--and you have been a man long known to me,
From tawny Spain lost in the world's debate.
enough in his purse, such a man would win any woman
Thou kill'st thy mistress: but well and free,
Whilst ours was blurted at and held a malkin
Therefore let every man now task his thought,
mightst have hit upon it here: the commonwealth of
Would thou wert clean enough to spit upon!
Do thou meet me presently at the harbour. Come
ANTIPHOLUS
Away!
Well have we done, thrice valiant countrymen:
The gods themselves throw incense. Have I caught thee?
And, in good time, here the lieutenant comes.
For your own quiet, as to rectify
That's as much as to say, bastard virtues; that,
That I have shot mine arrow o'er the house,
I'll tell him yet of Angelo's request,
Art thou the slave that with thy breath hast kill'd
Who shuns thy love shuns all his love in me.
Ay, but I fear you speak upon the rack,
Truly, sir, I am a poor fellow that would live.
Master Page, I am glad to see you: much good do it
Exeunt
He tells thee so himself.
pierced, which is the one?
Of all his people and freeze up their zeal,
Heavens forgive it!
Exeunt BOYET and MARIA
The sum of all I can, I have disclosed;
And make some pretty match with shedding tears?
Flourish. Exeunt OCTAVIUS CAESAR, MARK ANTONY, and LEPIDUS
To bring forth this discovery. Seek these suitors:
knave, a thin-faced knave, a gull!
In our opinions she should be preferr'd.
To be his evidence now.
I will not stay behind.
To your own conscience, sir, before Polixenes
Soldier, why wearest thou that glove in thy cap?
The faults of fools but folly.
How esteemest thou me? I account of her beauty.
complement and ceremony of it. But are you
Shall Romeo by my letters know our drift,
Comes at the last and with a little pin
What's he approacheth boldly to our presence?
well; another virtuous, yet I am well; but till all
That I revived, and was an emperor.
Friar, it cannot be.
And after, every of this happy number
All pity choked with custom of fell deeds:
Gloucester. Seek out where thy father is, that he
Most mighty liege, and my companion peers,
Marry sir, such claim as you would lay to your
I having ta'en the forfeit. Whereupon--
And to that end, sir, I will welcome you.
To Theseus must be wedded, and you come
It cannot be; for when I parted with him,
But what he look'd for should oppose and she
Do pelt so fast at one another's pate
These pretty country folks would lie,
I should not seek an absent argument
That gave me public leave to speak of him:
Here in Verona, ladies of esteem,
The which at Touraine, in Saint Katharine's
Where's Poins, Hal?
An older and a better soldier none
To win our daughter.
As common bruit doth put it.
Who craves to come aboard. What is your will?
And see our gentle queen how well she fares:
Legitimate Edgar, I must have your land:
Than twenty silly ducking observants
But by some unlook'd accident cut off!
I am one of those; his mother, wife, his child,
O, quietness, lady!
I love her ten times more than e'er I did:
When I dissuaded him from his intent,
But I am faint, my gashes cry for help.
We shall express our duty in his eye;
No, as I shall be saved.
staring on one another, to tear the cases of their
friends no wrong, for I have none to lament me, the
Excuse me;
After the taste of much correction.
whisper him in your behalfs; and if it be in man
How now! what news? why comest thou in such haste?
Are deeply indebted for this piece of pains:
Is that old noble lady, Duchess of Norfolk.
Ere they shall make us weep: we'll see 'em starve
Too early seen unknown, and known too late!
The other's peace: till then, blows, blood and death!
An otter, Sir John! Why an otter?
Those are the raised father and his friends:
Just as high as my heart.
What begg'st thou, then? fond woman, let me go.
Have struck more terror to the soul of Richard
Exit
There is no leprosy but what thou speak'st.
I shall be well content with any choice
Come, boy, prepare yourself.
Thou drunkard, thou, what didst thou mean by this?
By my troth and maidenhead,
So 'twere not 'long of him; but being enter'd,
To steal from spiritual leisure a brief span
They'll take suggestion as a cat laps milk;
last time he searched for him, in a basket; protests
Therefore, good youth, address thy gait unto her;
to borrow of your masters, they approach sadly, and
Why should he be killed?
Yet, in protection of their tender ones,
It is a comforter.
thy wrongs;
Nip not the gaudy blossoms of your love,
remedy presents itself. I do make myself believe
Lest it should burn above the bounds of reason.
Then sing him home;
I find myself a traitor with the rest;
That shapes this monstrous apparition.
By your leave, gods:--this is a Roman's part
She that your worship loves?
Last night she enjoined me to write some lines to
then look for your reward. I'll be at hand, sir; see
hanging, yields a careful man work.
In gait and countenance surely like a father.
Not unlike,
Arm me, audacity, from head to foot!
the bee of her honey.
Indian. Legged like a man and his fins like
For my wounds' sake, to give their suffrage: please you
Exit PISANIO
I am his king, and he should bow his knee;
followers, whose condemnation is pronounced. So far
To tell you once again that at my birth
These are old fond paradoxes to make fools laugh i'
To keep, until your further time of trial.
Bear his betroth'd from all the world away.
O lady Fortune,
Displant a town, reverse a prince's doom,
Unto their losses twenty thousand crowns;
Subdued me to her rate: she got the ring;
Howe'er it pleases you to take it so,
not.
Condemning shadows quite.
And honourable carriage,
He is coming.
Base tike, call'st thou me host? Now, by this hand,
No, my lord.
Love's stories written in love's richest book.
shall be as it may. I dare not fight; but I will
All hail, Macbeth, hail to thee, thane of Cawdor!
They'll go or come: if so, be patient, sister.
Turn thou the mouth of thy artillery,
Believe me, I speak as my understanding instructs me
That shall you, and take your leave of all your friends.
It is to be all made of fantasy,
It is not possible: you have not a man in all
Which ye shall never have while I live.
Where I did lodge last night. Do not laugh at me;
We are your guest to-night.
Exeunt all but the First Gentleman
if any man challenge this, he is a friend to
Disguised cheaters, prating mountebanks,
The prince and Claudio promised by this hour
Are punish'd with: the king must take it ill,
Fix'd on the summit of the highest mount,
Of the duke's confessor, John de la Car,
To make me hunger more; that I should forge
Although against her will, as it appears
Exit
Discover how, and thou shalt find me just.
Bless him at home in peace, whilst I from far
off so good a wife and so sweet a lady.
Forsooth, five years, and as much as to--
Well; again.
Who I do think is mine and love as mine,
You know I say nothing to him, for he understands
There is no remedy, sir, but you must die: the
Good Clarence, do; sweet Clarence, do thou do it.
The lamb will never cease to follow him.
They say, poor gentleman, he's much distract.
sexton hath reformed Signior Leonato of the matter:
Then marvel not, thou great and complete man,
This was thy daughter.
For raging wind blows up incessant showers,
Think'st thou the fiery fever will go out
But for my bonny Kate, she must with me.
And to what end is this? Nay, ladies, fear not;
Dispatched! I'll make the best in Gloucestershire
The king comes here to-night.
Thunder. Second Apparition: A bloody Child
The sweet which is their poison: your dishonour
Call it not patience, Gaunt; it is despair:
't as valourously as I may, that sall I suerly do,
And take the present horror from the time,
Now, for not looking on a woman's face,
Ay. Desdemona.
Dare ye come forth and meet us in the field?
there's all the love they bear us.
With crowns imperial, crowns and coronets,
Master, be one of them; it's an honourable kind of thievery.
When the battle's lost and won.
Sees Helen's beauty in a brow of Egypt:
Yourself, assisted with your honour'd friends,
Methought I was enamour'd of an ass.
make known to you why I have done this. Come,
In simple and low things to prince it much
shall undo a whole household, let me be gelded like
My lord, my lord, the French have gathered head:
Was near at hand: ne'er long'd my mother so
An instrument of this your calling back,
And, as we hear, march on to fight with us.
What a devil hast thou to do with the time of the
Sail like my pinnace to these golden shores.
In qualities of the best. This man of thine
Of Canterbury, from that holy see?
Is she not a fair creature?
Go thou to Friar Penker; bid them both
O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
where is Anne Page; by gar, he deceive me too.
To fright me with your sprites; you're powerful at it.
Do you mark that?
So shines a good deed in a naughty world.
[Aside]  I feel remorse in myself with his words;
Tell me, good Brutus, can you see your face?
And dispossess her all.
And never after to inherit it.
Letter for letter, but that the name of Page and
What, with five thousand men?
Alarums. Enter CASSIUS and TITINIUS
A sweet Athenian lady is in love
Come good fellow, put mine iron on:
Thou baggage, let me in.
I pray, let them be admitted.
Nor his?
True, they are so:
The honourable blood of Lancaster,
This tune goes manly.
Until a power be raised to put them down.
He says he will return incontinent:
By heaven, I will tear thee joint by joint
Even in the fan and wind of your fair sword,
Here lived I, but now live here no more.
without any malice, but to speak of him as my
For I can give his humour the true bent,
raised with it when I sit; driven out of doors with
If crooked fortune had not thwarted me.
Will bless the king: and is not this course pious?
buff jerkin?
No, I will not cast away my physic but on those that
Exeunt ROSALIND and CELIA
In weightier things you'll say a beggar nay.
With all the friends that thou, brave Earl of March,
Graves only be men's works and death their gain!
Her face defaced with scars of infamy,
And then receive my money for the chain.
My very hairs do mutiny; for the white
the hobby-horse, whose epitaph is 'For, O, for, O,
Am I like such a fellow?
He used us scornfully: he should have show'd us
'Tis thought, Lord Talbot, when the fight began,
Where is the duke? 'tis he should hear me speak.
I shall; and bring his answer presently.
Ah, were the Duke of Suffolk now alive,
Yet can I not of such tame patience boast
As howling after music.
Which his aspiring rider seem'd to know,
Silence!
Shall bitterly begin his fearful date
Papers of state he sent me to peruse,
I laugh'd him out of patience; and that night
Adieu.
I prithee,
labelled to my will: as, item, two lips,
That apprehends no further than this world,
Never lacks power to dismiss itself.
Is forth to man his galleys. To the vales,
In vaults and prisons, and to thrill and shake
Then, Jupiter, thou king of gods,
sight of him.
As all the world is cheered by the sun,
punishment, by thy sweet grace's officer, Anthony
O, now you look like Hubert! all this while
his great right to be so: Gerard de Narbon.
Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent:
You charge not in your spleen a noble person
Than praised for harmful mildness.
Cornets, and exeunt
And let them die that age and sullens have;
When men are unprepared and look not for it.
Faith, none for me; except the north-east wind,
Freely, good father.
Brave slip, sprung from the great Andronicus,
Strike not by land; keep whole: provoke not battle,
Ha! durst the traitor breathe out so proud words?
My father loved Sir Rowland as his soul,
on thee, I am a very villain. Come, and be hanged!
warren: I told him, and I think I told him true,
Exeunt
Favours, by Jove that thunders!
I am glad to see you mad.
Those in commission yet return'd?
Exeunt all but PERICLES
and a bastard, and a knave, and a rascal. What ish
Master, let me take you a buttonhole lower. Do you
I'll hold my mind, were she an Ethiope.
That, in the course of justice, none of us
Served well for Rome,--
From a pound to a pin? fold it over and over,
Why are you sequester'd from all your train,
Ere he attain his easeful western bed:
From foreign princes.
'Zounds, where thou wilt, lad; I'll make one; an I
are he, you are he.
Should be the father to so blest a son,
Ay, so I fear; the more is my unrest.
And does not Toby take you a blow o' the lips then?
And must for aye consort with black-brow'd night.
Forswear not thyself, sweet youth, for I am not
him, niece: look you how his sword is bloodied, and
Which now, two tender playfellows to dust,
I was sent for to the king; but why, I know not.
Well, madam.
In sign of what you are, not to reward
itself: but I will acquaint my daughter withal,
For this I owe you: here comes other reckonings.
And there is in this business more than nature
Is crept into the palace of our king.
Sometime I'll say, I am Duke Humphrey's wife,
To give you gentle pass; for, if we may,
God send you joy, Petruchio! 'tis a match.
No, I warrant your grace, you shall not entreat him
To do my work with haste.
For now I stand as one upon a rock
They draw
that I have a kind of alacrity in sinking; if the
No, I'll not weep:
Soft infancy, that nothing canst but cry,
The dignity of your office, is the point
Let your best love draw to that point, which seeks
And yet no day without a deed to crown it.
Stay, you that bear the corse, and set it down.
I am content.
That makes the world full of ill-favour'd children:
Exit
Bring forth these men.
Thy heart to find it. Is she with Posthumus?
Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
Thy drugs are quick. Thus with a kiss I die.
She will be pleased; then wherefore should I doubt?
Enter, at a distance, Host, and JULIA in boy's clothes
I am answered, sir.
So I hear.
As for the Duke of York, this late complaint
I am joyful
ANTIPHOLUS
Beware my follower. Peace, Smulkin; peace, thou fiend!
Pray, do my service to his majesty:
How show'd his tasking? seem'd it in contempt?
With all religious strength of sacred vows;
Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
work with him. I will plant you two, and let the
assure you, sir, I do assure.
With aptness of the season; make denials
Leave not the worthy Lucius, good my lords,
We two have sworn shall come.
Hold fast the mortal sword, and like good men
The son, the husband and the father tearing
Alas, master, I am not able to stand alone:
If I have any grace or power to move you,
Nay, I must tell you, so you do; or else I could not
'Tis my fault, Master Page: I suffer for it.
'I saw him enter such a house of sale,'
And yet no further than a wanton's bird;
Pray God my news be worth a welcome, lord.
My child is yet a stranger in the world;
How will their grudging stomachs be provoked
poets, cannot
when you have pushed out your gates the very
How might she tongue me! Yet reason dares her no;
That these great towers, trophies and schools
But kneels and holds up bands for fellowship,
Caphis, I say!
Come, my captain knows you not.
When Proteus cannot love where he's beloved.
What an alteration of honour
With thy chaste eye, from thy pale sphere above,
The root of his opinion, which is rotten
Which all too much I have bestow'd on thee.
Which smoked with bloody execution,
To BOYET
Upon the foot of motion.
Persever not, but hear me, mighty kings.
Bi-fold authority! where reason can revolt
To his new kingdom of perpetual rest.
You cannot beg us, sir, I can assure you, sir we know
How light and portable my pain seems now,
There are two lodged together.
Therefore exhale.
You said that idle weeds are fast in growth
his head in the view of Angelo? I may make my case
To spend that shortness basely were too long,
But with as humble lowliness of mind
My boon I make it, that you know me not
her so much as sip on a cup with the proudest of
Alarum'd by his sentinel, the wolf,
Well held out, i' faith! No, I do not know you; nor
Hath now himself met with the fall of leaf:
Yet our old love made a particular force,
Must give: for what? for lead? hazard for lead?
And, by despairing, shouldst thou stand excused;
that thou wilt be a voluntary mute to my design. Be
Authority melts from me: of late, when I cried 'Ho!'
Why, all this business
to in a month.
Fairly offer'd.
Till we with trophies do adorn thy tomb.
To bring this tidings to the bloody king.
Dispute not with her; she is lunatic.
If that the youth will come this way to-morrow,
'twere come to that!
You put our page out: go, you are allow'd;
Gods, gods! 'tis strange that from their cold'st neglect
ACT I
Will wing me to some wither'd bough and there
knavery, mark you now, as can be offer't; in your
Consume your blood with sorrowing: you have
That means not, hath not, or is not in love!
according to Fates and Destinies and such odd
Come, lords, we trifle time away; I long
That had a head to hit, either young or old,
All, all, cry shame against me, yet I'll speak.
Be brief in it, to the castle; for my writ
blind Cupid.
Do you call me fool?
But look thou stay not till the watch be set,
To emblaze the honour that thy master got.
I'll tell her the next time I see her: for my part,
To play till doomsday. Bring our crown and all.
a lute-string and now governed by stops.
it he is to sojourn with you? How creeps
SCENE I. Court of Macbeth's castle.
Exeunt
Form of the thing, each word made true and good,
Thou shouldest strike him.
Shall ever take alive the noble Brutus:
Hark ye;
whom I am bound to.
Yet the incessant weepings of my wife,
I'll bring him the best 'parel that I have,
penance: that fire-drake did I hit three times on
That's because the one is painted and the other out
Urge not my father's anger, Eglamour,
Lands, goods, horse, armour, any thing I have,
This is his second fit; he had one yesterday.
Even out of your report. But, pray you, tell me,
Lead me.
[Within]         Ho, daughter! are you up?
The son of Clarence have I pent up close;
Have I caught thee, my heavenly jewel? Why, now let
And think they are my sons, are none of mine;
Our business is not unknown to the senate; they have
For good Marina, that her daughter
I never knew him otherwise.
To scorch your face and to disfigure you.
It might; but it is not now.
Here is Lord Angelo shall give you justice:
Kill the still-closing waters, as diminish
Why give you me this shame?
et devin deesse?
Madam, good night; I humbly thank your ladyship.
Both, both. O, pardon!
By Jove, I am not covetous for gold,
bonneted, without any further deed to have them at
You cannot witness for me, being slain.
Ay: the heavens hear me!
And what to your sworn counsel I have spoken
sulphurous pit,
So is he, being a man.
Enrings the barky fingers of the elm.
Why, then, the champions are prepared, and stay
It may be I shall otherwise bethink me.
DON
Now I arise:
I, as I may--that which I would I cannot,--
Did ever Dian so become a grove
And I, with grief and sorrow, to the court.
The greater therefore should our courage be.
Be like our warranted quarrel! Why are you silent?
flower-de-luce?
As honest as I am.
way home again.
What says Andronicus to this device?
Fair thoughts and happy hours attend on you!
Be secret-false: what need she be acquainted?
As infancy and grace. But yet, Paulina,
Enter DROMIO of Ephesus with a rope's-end
Maintain no words with him, good fellow. Who, I,
To Henry's body, and supply his place;
Enter Musicians
Enter KING RICHARD II, with BAGOT and GREEN at one door; and the DUKE OF AUMERLE at another
Now will I stir this gamester: I hope I shall see
What observation madest thou in this case
Our human generation you shall find
Is the axe upon the block, sirrah?
Have you not set them on?
Troubles the silver spring where England drinks.
God gi' god-den. I pray, sir, can you read?
Re-enter IRAS with a robe, crown,  and c
Hath not our brother made a worthy choice?
Thou art true and honest; ingeniously I speak.
Reading
A heart so tender o'er it, take it hence
testimony in your complexion that it was a passion
Enter young LUCIUS, and LAVINIA running after him,  and the boy flies from her, with books under his arm. Then enter TITUS and MARCUS
The shape of Love's Tyburn that hangs up simplicity.
Strike at the heaven with your staves as lift them
That he is march'd to Bourdeaux with his power,
ACT II
Wrench awe from fools and tie the wiser souls
Was there none else in Rome to make a stale,
And bid me be advised how I tread.
Ready, my lord.
To make cold nymphs chaste crowns; and thy broom -groves,
And I nothing to back my suit at all,
With patches, colours, and with forms being fetch'd
As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i' the working, Mark you,
Appoint a meeting with this old fat fellow,
That brain'd my purpose. But, peace be with him!
Enter Chorus
o'clock, early at Gadshill! there are pilgrims going
Unless some fit or frenzy do possess her:
Thou shalt be master, Tranio, in my stead,
By your leave, sir,--
Have I lived thus long--let me speak myself,
There thou speak'st reason: nay, I will do so.
Monmouth: it is called Wye at Monmouth; but it is
A drum now of the enemy's,--
They shall subscribe them for large sums of gold
Our town of Cicester in Gloucestershire;
Loather a hundred times to part than die.
Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.
married man, he's his wife's head, and I can never
For powers in Scotland; which, for divers reasons
That raught at mountains with outstretched arms,
Nor brass nor stone nor parchment bears not one,
Shall be transported presently to France.
To guide our measure round about the tree.
By what did here befal me. Your wife and brother
Know you the musicians?
That you will be more mild and tractable.
My hands are of your colour; but I shame
Tire on the flesh of me and of my son!
fashion, and so berattle the common stages--so they
Go, get thee gone, thou false deluding slave,
And calls them brothers, friends and countrymen.
Your grace, we think, should soonest know his mind.
Come, trouble not yourself. Good Master Fenton,
Unmannerly intruder as thou art!
I have, and I will hold, the quondam Quickly
Shall more obey than to the edge of steel
What would you with her, sir?
That do outface it with their semblances.
my lieutenant Peto meet me at town's end.
More bright in zeal than the devotion which
He cannot be such a monster--
A weight of carrion flesh than to receive
Where valiant Talbot above human thought
Enter HORATIO and MARCELLUS
But I hear, no; they say my son of York
It is the pasture lards the rother's sides,
With sorrowful water? Now I see, I see,
Casca, be sudden, for we fear prevention.
And for your faithfulness we will advance you.
He shent our messengers; and we lay by
Exit an Attendant
Think upon what hath chanced, and, at more time,
The captainship, thou shalt be met with thanks,
There is a lady in Verona here
Uncle, my brother mocks both you and me;
Die the death:
Come, take away. Lavinia, go with me:
Plant those that have revolted in the van,
The seal I keep: and so betide to me
To reap the harvest of perpetual peace
I could be well moved, if I were as you:
where it is.
Exeunt SILVIA and THURIO
What is the matter, my lord?
By virtue of that ring, I take my cause
I pray you, good Bassanio, let me know it;
Such a fellow is not to be talked withal. Away with
Is weaker than the wine; and mine own tongue
Go with me to the vault.
He would not, but by gift of my chaste body
You will not pay for the glasses you have burst?
Thou pure impiety and impious purity!
He reads the riddle
Ay, or surly borne,--
[To RICHMOND]
Cannot be well bestow'd.
And have no other reason for this wrong
And if not that, I bring you witnesses,
EDGAR interposes
Afflict me with thy mocks, pity me not;
How now! a conduit, girl? what, still in tears?
Et vous aussi; votre serviteur.
And not till then.
and how he goes! O admirable youth! he ne'er saw
That bide the pelting of this pitiless storm,
Of the great Duke of Buckingham.
With purpose to relieve and follow them,
Hoyday, a riddle! neither good nor bad!
you, is digt himself four yard under the
And new-create this fault?
philosopher when he grows old, being so full of
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,
Dear life redeems you. You perceive she stirs:
Or shall we on, and not depend on you?
And make imaginary puissance;
Your hearts and minds to mutiny and rage,
On thy low grave, on faults forgiven. Dead
To me a break-neck. Happy star, reign now!
This is my king, York, I do not mistake;
Then, if you fight against God's enemy,
To Lammas-tide?
but ignorance; in which thou art more puzzled than
How tastes it? is it bitter? forty pence, no.
That, being daily swallow'd by men's eyes,
that the wrestling might not go forward.
I pray thee, mark me.
Which now bear evidence against my soul,
Chiefly i' the world; more laugh'd at, that I should
Exit CHARMIAN
This compell'd fortune!--have your mouth fill'd up
In some sort, sir: but though my case be a pitiful
Well, I am not fair; and therefore I pray the gods
It were convenient you had such a devil:
go to bed.
Come not thou near me: and when that time comes,
What enterprise, Popilius?
And do invite you to my sister's view,
And turn'd that black word death to banishment:
The to-and-fro-conflicting wind and rain.
Charm ache with air and agony with words:
Thou hast the most unsavoury similes and art indeed
Is the argument of Time. Of this allow,
Whom he hath used rather for sport than need
Soft, sir! one word more.
hither: here he does but repair it. I know he will
Enter LUCIUS, a Captain and other Officers, and a Soothsayer
On this fair corse; and, as the custom is,
If any wretch have put this in your head,
Lead away.
Or whether that the body public be
I am a gentleman of Verona, sir,
Well, lords, to-day we shall have our dispatch:
ACT II
Confirm his welcome with some special favour.
Go in and cheer the king: he rages; none
sufferance is a gain to them Let us revenge this with
married to-morrow:
The bloody office of his timeless end.
For with a band of thirty thousand men
That more than all the world I did respect her.
Lest we remember still that we have none.
Let's see the penalty.
A noise within
have I encompassed you? go to; via!
providence in the fall of a sparrow. If it be now,
Unquiet meals make ill digestions;
That give a name to every fixed star
No, sir.
see thee so put down?
When I do weep, they humbly at my feet
I tell you, denied, my lord.
The benediction of these covering heavens
His dukedom and his chair with me is left.
shifted out of thy tale into telling me of the fashion?
Proud can I never be of what I hate;
Unless it have a false interpeter.
Enter NORFOLK
My father gave me honour, yours gave land.
Give me your hand and let me feel your pulse.
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
I dare thee but to breathe upon my love.
Abruptly, as my passion now makes me,
Yet sell your face for five pence and 'tis dear.
Fears make devils of cherubims; they never see truly.
Despise me, if I do not. Three great ones of the city,
there, and you too; but my powers are there already.
Alas, what need you be so boisterous-rough?
Why whisper you, my lords, and answer not?
That yarely frame the office. From the barge
How in his suit he scorn'd you; but your loves,
Perchance she weeps because they kill'd her husband;
That he hath breathed in my dishonour here.
But though they jump not on a just account,--
No, Mortimer is not there.
Nay, pray, be patient: if you refuse your aid
O, reform it altogether. And let those that play
yellowness, for the revolt of mine is dangerous:
Will never do him good, not one of you.
My conscience hath a thousand several tongues,
no-verbs. Give me thy hand, terrestrial; so. Give me
As they fly by them with their woven wings.
Not once, nor twice, but twenty times you have.
Exeunt
No, I can better play the orator.
I'll thither: what thing is it that I never
We cannot cross the cause why we were born;
As I perceived his grace would fain have done,
Imagine Pericles arrived at Tyre,
He will, forsooth, have all my prisoners;
Touching the Turkish loss, yet he looks sadly,
Tombless, with no remembrance over them:
Anon, as patient as the female dove,
But tell me whom thou seek'st.
Give some supportance to the bending twigs.
Never so truly happy, my good Cromwell.
Industrious soldiership.
His absence, sir,
I saw't this morning: confident I am
own country, be out of love with your nativity and
That common chances common men could bear;
This thou shalt answer; I know thee, Roderigo.
You stubborn ancient knave, you reverend braggart,
With that she sighed as she stood,
Command thy son and daughter to join hands.
To come to Padua. Know you not the cause?
BISHOP
Sevenfold above itself; no gift to him,
The young'st and oldest thing.
If he had gone forth consul, found it so.
What is thy name, that in the battle thus
Methinks you're better spoken.
No more, you petty spirits of region low,
To give thee answer of thy just demand.
And so wast thou, Lord Hastings, when my son
SCENE I. Westminster. A street.
SCENE I. Before PAGE'S house.
And graze in commons.
Seldom he smiles, and smiles in such a sort
I were best not to call; I dare not call:
Then be at peace except ye thirst for blood.
And with affection wondrous sensible
Nay, would I were so anger'd with the same!
And doth impeach the freedom of the state,
Let's to the Capitol. Would half my wealth
Not well disposed, the mind growing once corrupt,
Will you go?
In the cathedral church of Westminster,
Whate'er thou art, for thy good caution, thanks;
Stand!
The whilst his iron did on the anvil cool,
Art thou to break into this woman's mood,
such enemies again as that fiend Douglas, that
He that helps him take all my outward worth.
Only about her coronation.
Exeunt severally
us; not to have us thrive in our mystery.
Convert his gyves to graces; so that my arrows,
Our most persisted deeds.
worm's an odd worm.
Where is our uncle? what's the matter, Suffolk?
Knows he of this?
If, Duke of Burgundy, you would the peace,
Hear me, hear me what I say: he that strikes the
Must lie and fester.
Of health and living now begins to mend,
To wag their high tops and to make no noise,
[Reads]  'Demand of him, of what strength they are
And half their faces buried in their cloaks,
offends me,--
Have with our needles created both one flower,
the finest part of pure love: we cannot call her
You may as well do anything most hard,
Most noble sir,
When stubbornly he did repugn the truth
Be it as your wisdom will.
DON
To hurl upon their heads that break his law.
Do so, and after two days
SCENE V. Gloucester's castle.
thee to thy uncle's.
to dinner;' there's a double meaning in that 'I took
Not scurvy, nor a temporary meddler,
Your husband, he is gone to save far off,
delivered the matter well, when I find the ass in
Upon whose faith and honour I repose.
Enter ROMEO
I shall unfold equal discourtesy
I do arrest thee of high treason here.
ready to crack with impatience. Who says this is
Pray you, do my commendations; I would be glad to see it.
Exit GARDINER
My speech and what is done, tell him he has
Striding the blast, or heaven's cherubim, horsed
A true-devoted pilgrim is not weary
Go shake your ears.
They mock thee, Clifford: swear as thou wast wont.
And in her eye there hath appear'd a fire,
I'll warrant you, 'tis as well:
I am sorry that I am deceived in him.
Exeunt BANQUO and FLEANCE
Go thou to sanctuary, and good thoughts possess thee!
Look, Hector, how the sun begins to set;
Reverbs no hollowness.
Peace, ye fat-kidneyed rascal! what a brawling dost
Above a number, if my actions
And say besides, that in Aleppo once,
That's one of them.
And that it comes from old Andronicus,
Fill all thy bones with aches, make thee roar
No, none that thou hast wit enough to make.
I named my knell, whilst I sit meditating
My lord your son drew on my master.
In our condition.
Enter MONTAGUE and others
Which since we cannot do to make you friends,
Look you what I have from the loving king.
This is the man that can, in aught you would,
And left this head on. How should this be? Pisanio?
And when it breaks, I fear will issue thence
It is the cry of women, my good lord.
Though Suffolk dare him twenty thousand times.
On some odd time of his infirmity,
Come, what talk you
By this our mother is forever shamed.
What he will do: but if he will not yield,
Exeunt
Masters, the duke is coming from the temple, and
shall find us in our salt-water girdle: if you
Unto his lordship, whose unwished yoke
O, good my lord, no Latin;
How tender 'tis to love the babe that milks me:
You cavil, widow: I did mean, my queen.
He shall, sure on't.
Must by us both be spent most preciously.
To hear the story of your life, which must
Unless she gave it to yourself in bed,
The scatter'd foe that hopes to rise again;
A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward?
Or nature makes me suddenly relent.
Well, I do so.
Fit to govern!
I beg for justice, which thou, prince, must give;
calves'-guts, nor the voice of unpaved eunuch to
Till Cranmer, Cromwell, her two hands, and she,
wear thy heart in a scarf!
In heavy satisfaction and would never
You wisest Grecians, pardon me this brag;
Ay, madam, from the reach of these my hands:
Thou canst not do a thing in the world so soon,
O, very well; I have perused the note.
The sad-eyed justice, with his surly hum,
Is he married?
Undone by goodness! Strange, unusual blood,
Give me their bodies, that I may bear them hence
And felt them knowingly; the art o' the court
My cousin Westmoreland? No, my fair cousin:
My hunger's gone; but even before, I was
They in themselves, good-sooth, are too too light.
So do our vulgar drench their peasant limbs
And soon and safe arrived where I was.
thrust in the mouth with a spear, and 'tis not whole
This, by his voice, should be a Montague.
The sight of any of the house of York
Brother of England, how may we content
that thou wouldst discover if thou couldst, let him
--O God, that I were a man! I would eat his heart
Reposing on a cushion.
Deliberate pause: diseases desperate grown
Already smokes about the burning crest
And she's obedient, as you say, obedient,
Upon the maiden virtue of the crown.
I have done nothing but in care of thee,
I have a hundred milch-kine to the pail,
accept his service.
Exeunt Lords
That I have worn so many winters out,
Dies
Then put my tires and mantles on him, whilst
In the spring time, the only pretty ring time,
Venetian, a scholar and a soldier, that came hither
And not a tinker nor Christophero Sly.
Enter BAPTISTA and LUCENTIO
The king shall know it, and, no doubt, shall thank you.
From France?
bladder. There's villanous news abroad: here was
What men are you?
Help, ho!--Lieutenant,--sir,--Montano,--sir;
were, I have acquainted you withal, to the end to
That will I do.
Which I can call but now, I have heard strange news.
At many times I brought in my accounts,
I'll make thee an example.
And strange it is,
Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
Your reasons are too shallow and too quick.
broke cross.
And quarter'd in her heart! he doth espy
thrown into the Thames, and cooled, glowing hot,
Of nature's germens tumble all together,
Exeunt
In you, which I account his beyond all talents,
Of boundless tongue, who late hath beat her husband
If your diligence be not speedy, I shall be there afore you.
calamity, so beauty's a flower. The lady bade take
Than death prorogued, wanting of thy love.
It wears, sir, as it grows.
Thou wouldst have left thy dearest heart-blood there,
Was never holla'd to, nor cheer'd with horn,
Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father.
dissembling luxurious drab, of a sleeveless errand.
I shall offend, either to detain or give it. The
When I have feasted with Queen Margaret?
Think, my lord!
of malice I swear, I am not that I play. Are you
Dance. Then exeunt all except DON JOHN, BORACHIO, and CLAUDIO
Most willing, madam.
like the brooch and the tooth-pick, which wear not
Went'st not thou to her for a purse of ducats?
No remedy, my lord, when walls are so wilful to hear
No, sir; it is legs and thighs. Let me see the
That makes us wretched by the death of thee,
Your grace is noble:
To recompense your love: doubt not but heaven
May tear a passage through the flinty ribs
Thou desperate pilot, now at once run on
Have I disbursed to the garrisons,
Exton, I thank thee not; for thou hast wrought
Are ministers of Fate: the elements,
Achievement is command; ungain'd, beseech:
Most grave Brabantio,
pray you, what thinks he of our estate?
Nothing to be were better. This was my master,
Upon surmises, all proofs sleeping else
Delay leads impotent and snail-paced beggary
If thou remember'st aught ere thou camest here,
The man shall have his mare again, and all shall be well.
Hie to the Goths, and raise an army there:
You lie, you are not he.
To me and to the state of my great grief
What proclamation, man?
Come short of what he did.
With vilest torture let my life be ended.
The passion of loud laughter never shed.
At every joint and motive of her body.
Were there surprised and taken prisoners.
I'll take my oath on it, till he have made an oyster
Give me thy hand; 'tis late: farewell; good night.
Orleans the Bastard, Charles, Burgundy,
'Tis not an hour since I left him there.
I'll assure you, a' uttered as brave words at the
For I will love thee ne'er the less, my girl.
Never durst poet touch a pen to write
When thou art Timon's dog, and these knaves honest.
Whereof the ewe not bites, and you whose pastime
Sow all the Athenian bosoms; and their crop
An they have conspired together, I will not say you
Why, how now, monsieur! what a life is this,
Is Brutus sick? and is it physical
I do not sue to stand;
a tailor to thee and shall make thee a new doublet
Upon that Clifford, that cruel child-killer.
And since we have the vaward of the day,
Petition us at home: Sextus Pompeius
As to vouchsafe one glance unto the ground.
He would not flatter Neptune for his trident,
Cry to it, nuncle, as the cockney did to the eels
Exeunt
Leave me, friends.
[To BIANCA]  What, look you pale? O, bear him out
You will catch cold, and curse me.
Sings
Madam, what should I do?
The name of king? o' God's name, let it go:
answered him well.
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH and Clown
displeasures, and his indignations, and also being a
Then none have I offended. I have done no more to
Or, if we did derive it from our friends,
Not out of absolute lust, though peradventure
Then get your husband's lands, to do them good.
Pluck up thy spirits; look cheerfully upon me.
And they would go and kiss dead Caesar's wounds
To offer service to your enemy,
Well, let my deeds be witness of my worth.
Between the realms of England and of France.
There's no more to be said, but he is banish'd,
That thy adulteries
They would but stink, and putrefy the air.
That from pay mutest conscience to my tongue
To bear the matter thus; mere weakness. If
Shall be well winged with our chiefest horse.
Rideth a puissant navy; to the shore
come but in, as others do, to try with him the
or nine wise words to speak to you, which these
The child-bed privilege denied, which 'longs
Sound, music! Come, my queen, take hands with me,
Young lords, beware! and should the empress know
him as a present to Mistress Silvia from my master;
How, Camillo,
Enforced from the old Assyrian slings:
Snatching ROMEO's dagger
Of the whole state: as, of late days, our neighbours,
For they account his head upon the bridge.
out of honesty into English.
So forcing faults upon Hermione,
A repulse: though your attempt, as you call it,
I'll set thee in a shower of gold, and hail
When the intent of bearing them is just.
She calls me proud, and that she could not love me,
catch cold on's feet.
But hear you, my lord.
Nay I'll to him again in name of Brook
'Tis better using France than trusting France:
I grant him part; but then, in his Armenia,
Leave thy lascivious wassails. When thou once
And all the fair effects of future hopes.
Coming from Sardis, on our former ensign
Yes, master, clear as day, I thank God and
By living low, where fortune cannot hurt me,
Our letters, madam, show'd much more than jest.
We shall have him here to-morrow with his best ruff on.
Long mayst thou live to wail thy children's loss;
The higher powers forbid!
grieve thee,
Music
Exit RUGBY
If it mar nothing neither,
Away with me, all you whose souls abhor
Well, sir, we will not.
is not a buff jerkin a most sweet robe of durance?
True, and I for a plantain: thus came your
And Florence is denied before he comes:
More of him anon. There is written in your brow,
Shall pass between us: ere long you are like to hear,
For tubs and baths; bring down rose-cheeked youth
Thou art no friend to God or to the king:
Come in, woman!
Doth Lear walk thus? speak thus? Where are his eyes?
Where is my page? Go, villain, fetch a surgeon.
Truly deliver.
What man is this?
shines; I'll make a sop o' the moonshine of you:
That lived, that loved, that liked, that look'd
Is Caesar yet gone to the Capitol?
SCENE VII. The forest.
What is't, Ophelia, be hath said to you?
Who bids thee call? I do not bid thee call.
Ha! now I see thou art a fool, and fit for thy master.
Then love me, Rosalind.
The earth that's nature's mother is her tomb;
With sad unhelpful tears, and with dimm'd eyes
knock and call; hell speak like an Anthropophaginian
It well appears: but tell me
And finds his trusty Thisby's mantle slain:
That's a lascivious apprehension.
Who holds his state at door, 'mongst pursuivants,
praised the vile,
How fares our noble uncle, Lancaster?
Provokes this deluge most unnatural.
There's something in me that reproves my fault;
Exeunt ANTONY and TREBONIUS
And say 'This man's a flatterer?' if one be,
Who cannot want the thought how monstrous
Or covetous of praise,--
Let us seem humbler after it is done
I had rather seal with my death than repeat over
To take a note of what I stand in need of,
More pangs and fears than wars or women have:
I will.
Of hardiness is mother. Ho! who's here?
Nor of them look for such observances
As they themselves would owe them.
He is a noble Roman and well given.
Why have you not proclaim'd Northumberland
further charge, that you swerve not from the
A challenge, on my life.
In this point charge him home, that he affects
Four hundred twenty-six; and Charles the Great
And I to this.
Thou shouldst not scape me here.
Revenge, ye heavens, for old Andronicus!
ANTIPHOLUS
To learn the order of my fingering,
How now, spirit! whither wander you?
Where is Malvolio? he is sad and civil,
I'll keep, if but for sympathy.
You must lay down the treasures of your body
Than the rebuke you give it.
Who commands them, sir?
In thine own person answer thy abuse.
Here never shines the sun; here nothing breeds,
Some spirit put this paper in the packet,
Which shall possess them with the heaviest sound
On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys;
What say you, master?
O madam, madam, madam!
Out of a foreign wisdom, renouncing clean
Grew like the summer grass, fastest by night,
With every gale and vary of their masters,
Prithee, be my present partner in this business, and
[Within]  Break any breaking here, and I'll break your
To dive like buckets in concealed wells,
nobody: is there any harm in 'the heavier for a
And there repose: a turn or two I'll walk,
O that my death would stay these ruthful deeds!
I and my brother are not known; yourself
pardonner! Je suis gentilhomme de bonne maison:
'Tis certain so; the prince wooes for himself.
Enter KING HENRY VI and Attendants
Lull'd in these flowers with dances and delight;
That ministers thine own death if I die.
Now, welcome, Kate: and bear me witness all,
is that honour? air. A trim reckoning! Who hath it?
In the division of each several crime,
What place? what time? what form? what likelihood?
Ay, so I think.
A wicked day, and not a holy day!
continue in his courses till thou knowest what they
No more, thou thunder-master, show
As I bethink me, you should not be king
My humble thanks. I had almost forgot
I'll be at charges for a looking-glass,
I must needs say you have a little fault:
To high promotions and great dignity:
comfit-maker's wife. 'Not you, in good sooth,' and
So like a waking. To me comes a creature,
Modest as morning when she coldly eyes
Which he, young wanton and effeminate boy,
Blows fair from land: they stay for nought at all
You've strange serpents there.
And reason panders will.
Let two more summers wither in their pride,
A heart unfortified, a mind impatient,
out of order. Come, march forward.
His absolute 'shall'?
No more shall be the neighbour to my counsel:
Horns.
I have a faint cold fear thrills through my veins,
Emmanuel.
To most ignoble stooping.
You shall not now be stol'n, you have locks upon you;
DON
That doth presume to boast of gentle blood.
And spleen of speed to see your majesty!
And cry myself awake? that's false to's bed, is it?
and seen the spider.
Exeunt
How now! what's the matter?
His love.
He is already named, and gone to Scone
Of that which hath so faithfully been paid.
To murder, murder our solemnity?
Crowned with faith and constant loyalty.
Name them.
Hal, wilt thou make one?
against God's peace and the king's, we charge and
If she be mad,--as I believe no other,--
offer it: but these that accuse him in his intent
Like to a vagabond flag upon the stream,
Even now a tailor call'd me in his shop
For I shall never speak to thee again.
Exit
To save at least the heir of Edward's right:
yourself too much in the action, mounsieur; and,
What's that?
Go, girl, seek happy nights to happy days.
Here comes Bassanio, your most noble kinsman,
Enter BOYET
About Sir William Blomer,--
But why did he swear he would come this morning, and
Bequeathing it as a rich legacy
To outlook conquest and to win renown
Never, my lord.
My lord?
And so have I a noble father lost;
What page's suit she hath in readiness.
What, is't too short? I'll lengthen it with mine:
Marry, that, I think, be young Petrucio.
With heigh! the doxy over the dale,
I should not make so dear a show of zeal:
To see alike mine honour as their profits,
'Tis hoped his sickness is discharged.
The spirit of the time shall teach me speed.
Swear like a ruffian and demean himself
That would be ten days' wonder at the least.
Call in the messengers. As I am Egypt's queen,
put them on first in Afric, at the marriage of
An unkind breach: but you shall make all well.
And poise the cause in justice' equal scales,
With piercing steel at bold Mercutio's breast,
The hollow passage of my poison'd voice,
Nay, I care not for their names; they owe me
To mingle faith with him! Undone! undone!
O Hero, what a Hero hadst thou been,
You shall not go: a lady's 'Verily' 's
What's your grace's will?
And like me to the peasant boys of France,
the honest men and hang up them.
Due reference of place and exhibition,
to hear it.
The news is very fair and good, my lord:
Nor by the matter which your heart prompts you,
What mean'st by this?
Ding, dong, bell.
The GHOST OF BANQUO enters, and sits in MACBETH's place
Enter a Messenger
He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
What majesty is in her gait? Remember,
And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepared him
I will, sir.
A bloody deed, and desperately dispatch'd!
She'll close and be herself, whilst our poor malice
And now they meet where both their lives are done.
Hast thou slain Tybalt? wilt thou slay thyself?
I charged thee that she should not come about me:
proportion; rests me his minim rest, one, two, and
I love not many words.
To be sent after me.
No, madam.
'Some are born great,'--
As soul and body's severing.
are now to examination these men.
As all the poisonous potions in the world
followers.
clap hands and a bargain: how say you, lady?
Fair maid, is't thou wilt do these wondrous feats?
death: her death itself, which could not be her
Grant me the combat, gracious sovereign.
That's to 't indeed, sir: marry, sir, at the request
To free King Henry from imprisonment
Ay, that's the theme.
He is knight, dubbed with unhatched rapier and on
Some say that ravens foster forlorn children,
Kept in my soul, and would not let it forth
So be it; either to the uttermost,
O, rhymes are guards on wanton Cupid's hose:
workman, a very good tailor.
And for the contents' sake are sorry for our pain.
But thankful even for hate, that is meant love.
No, not a grize; for 'tis a vulgar proof,
Bear with him, Brutus; 'tis his fashion.
The Grecian youths are full of quality;
Which with pain purchased doth inherit pain:
My master, my dear lord he is; and I
La you now, you hear:
O my Parolles, they have married me!
Hath the late overthrow wrought this offence?
Good traders in the flesh, set this in your
'Tis from your sister.
Through the ashes of my chance: wert thou a man,
Good king, that must approve the common saw,
From your good queen.
Made by the joiner squirrel or old grub,
Your lady, sir, your lady: and her sister
The Second Knight passes over
opinion, and that opinion a mere profit.
To lay on me a cruelty, by taking
Unseen, yet crescive in his faculty.
How pregnant sometimes his replies are! a happiness
Of an unbounded stomach, ever ranking
With half that face would he have all my land:
That will be excellent. I'll go and buy them vizards.
As is the spring to the earth. And hath he too
That tend on mortal thoughts, unsex me here,
I took him for the plainest harmless creature
The heir of his reward;
Nor take no shape nor project of affection,
Pity the city of London, pity us!
teach me to forget a banished father, you must not
We charge you, in the prince's name, stand!
Or nourish'd him as I did with my blood,
Servant, you are sad.
His popular 'shall' against a graver bench
He would not call me son.
caviare to the general: but it was--as I received
Sir, sometimes, when he is not Antony,
Why, there thou hast it: two deep enemies,
I find him a fit fellow.
O you most potent gods! what's here? a corse!
Dat is good; by gar, with all my heart!
unto whom I was going; I shall there have money, or
The words of heaven; on whom it will, it will;
Exeunt
so determinate as the removing of Cassio.
I pray thee, sing, and let me woo no more.
against thee by poison, entrap thee by some
An thou hadst not come to my bed.
O, yes; and went between us very oft.
the very yea and the no is, the French doctor, my
canon. Keep it not; you cannot choose but loose
As make the angels weep; who, with our spleens,
Of beauty's tutors have enrich'd you with?
And, for my wife, I know not how it stands;
And when goes hence?
France together: why the devil should we keep
O, that I were a glove upon that hand,
beasts most graze, birds best peck, and men sit down
A very honest-hearted fellow, and as poor as the king.
I am no woman, I'll not swoon at it.
But, dost thou hear? gavest thou my letter to Julia?
That we present us to him.
Dull; a man of good repute, carriage, bearing, and
Have all true rites and lawful ceremonies.
Ay, ay.
With all our harts.
If I were bound to divine of this unity, I would
I'll say yon grey is not the morning's eye,
Or I will beat this method in your sconce.
So much applauded through the realm of France?
Speed how it will. I shall ere long have knowledge
Be't their comfort
But that this folly douts it.
I must shortly hear from him, or I will subscribe
me for ever be your table-sport; let them say of
Who had, no doubt, some noble creature in her,
Do grace to Caesar's corpse, and grace his speech
Insinuation, parley and base truce
Enter MARK ANTONY with EUPHRONIUS, the Ambassador
lady in the world.
She give it Cassio! no, alas! I found it,
Alcides, thou mine ancestor, thy rage:
Of none but such as you, and you of Timon.
Which most gibingly, ungravely, he did fashion
No, I will do nothing at thy bidding: make thy
thus near, that, should she fancy, it should be one
And then do execution on the watch.
Exit LADY MACDUFF, crying 'Murder!' Exeunt Murderers, following her
To those that wring under the load of sorrow,
And never shall it more be gracious.
you are mine, I am yours: I give away myself for
Civil dissension is a viperous worm
Now expectation, tickling skittish spirits,
So young, my lord, and true.
a little; comfort a little; cheer thyself a little.
And to be boy eternal.
Exeunt
Know, worthy Pompey,
Than thee with wantonness: now doth thy honour stand
let me have Claudio's head sent me by five. Let
so plentiful an excrement?
By turning o'er authorities, I have,
and a heaven to throne in.
CAESAR goes up to the Senate-House, the rest following
Beside, what infamy will there arise,
Went you not to her yesterday, sir, as you told me
Go to; I say you shall.
We have not yet been seen in any house,
The pleasures such a beauty brings with it;
My lord and brother, God save you!
And you must put me in your heart for friend,
Of the none-sparing war? and is it I
When foreign princes shall be certified
Why, that's well said.
I have a venturous fairy that shall seek
But, sir, such wanton, wild and usual slips
duck, I'll be sworn.
Your lordship shall along. Come, good Sir Thomas,
My banquet is to close our stomachs up,
Exeunt all but EXETER
For she's not froward, but modest as the dove;
And at that time I made her weep agood,
Wash my fierce hand in's heart. Go you to the city;
Gramercy, fellow: there, drink that for me.
Tendering my ruin and assail'd of none,
Thou for whom Jove would swear
To him that did but yesterday suspire,
Stocks brought out
A noise again, 'Stones! stones!' Enter Mayor
Minds sway'd by eyes are full of turpitude.
DON
What do you call him?
They grow still too; from all parts they are coming,
Truly, she's very well indeed, but for two things.
Where I am but a stranger: from the deck
That love the fundamental part of state
'In witness whereof the parties interchangeably'--
Where hadst thou it?
What need you tell me that? I think so, when I took
You, gracious madam, to unthink your speaking
There's tricks i' the world; and hems, and beats her heart;
Was that the king, that spurred his horse so hard
pursue him with any further revenge?
Demetrius loves her, and he loves not you.
To tread down fair respect of sovereignty,
And manhood is call'd foolery, when it stands
has a knot on't yet
Thou mean'st to have him grant thee.
Cease to lament for that thou canst not help,
Than he, and men, the earth, the heavens, and all:
Let's leave this town; for they are hare-brain'd slaves,
wilt hear me,
Which I with sword will open.
Hath he not twit our sovereign lady here
Answer no more, for thou shalt be my queen.
He is enfranchised and come to light:
He's gone, but his wife's kill'd.
And seem'd I ever otherwise to you?
O monstrous! what reproachful words are these?
Should be deposed; and, being, that we detain
Dispatch: this knave's tongue begins to double.
Exit
Made wars upon me; and their contestation
ACT I
Farewell; be trusty, and I'll quit thy pains:
Bid them prepare within:
With tomboys hired with that self-exhibition
Belong to the gallows, and be hanged, ye rogue! is
Come, sir, away.
Sir, shall I to this lady?
Enter PAULINA, with a child
Abate thy rage, great duke!
Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight,
My matter hath no voice, to your own most pregnant
With what persuasion did he tempt thy love?
Now, France, thy glory droopeth to the dust.
Which the base vulgar do call three.
If you do sorrow at my grief in love,
Which, since, succeeding ages have re-edified.
To bar your highness claiming from the female,
So she may live unscarr'd of bleeding slaughter,
Fill, Lucius, till the wine o'erswell the cup;
Reads
English cudgel: you find it otherwise; and
Aside, aside; here is more matter for a hot brain:
Small curs are not regarded when they grin;
My house and welcome on their pleasure stay.
Unregister'd in vulgar fame, you have
O, you shall be exposed, my lord, to dangers
In her prophetic fury sew'd the work;
At Saint Gregory's well.
Are full of rest, defense, and nimbleness.
How I may be deliver'd of these woes,
What's the matter?
There is a word will Priam turn to stone;
Then cursed she Hastings, then cursed she Buckingham,
From henceforth I will, coz, and devise sports. Let
Cutting the clouds towards Paphos and her son
That marry wives. Tell me, how if my brother,
This is the old man still.
What are you reading?
O holy friar, O, tell me, holy friar,
Ay, marry, was it, mussel-shell: what would you with her?
For thou exist'st on many a thousand grains
war I sent him; from whence he returned, his brows
A charge too heavy for my strength, but yet
He was expected then,
make your wit bankrupt.
Why dost thou laugh? it fits not with this hour.
Blow, blow, thou winter wind.
Exeunt
Whilst I, with those that have the spirit, will haste
Sometime with lunatic bans, sometime with prayers,
Exit EUPHRONIUS
you'll give him me. Be true to my lord: if he
Tell Bolingbroke--for yond methinks he stands--
What darest thou venture?
A short alarum
Well, God 'ild you! They say the owl was a baker's
Nay, take me with thee, good sweet Exeter:
For this, be sure, to-night thou shalt have cramps,
And he that will not fight for such a hope.
It is as sure as you are Roderigo,
And let no quarrel nor no brawl to come
Say, if thou'dst rather hear it from our mouths,
He is unqualitied with very shame.
That thine own trip shall be thine overthrow?
Though so denied fair harbour in my house.
When mistresses from common sense are hid;
Half-part, mates, half-part.
What, gone without a word?
what I would speak of concerns him.
greediness would afflict thee, and oft thou shouldst
Romeo will answer it.
No quips now, Pistol! Indeed, I am in the waist two
Foolish curs, that run winking into the mouth of a
I am afraid, sir,
us. Come, stand not amazed at it, but go along with
lying: it becomes none but tradesmen, and they
Chastisement!
That stroke would prove the worst!
That I must die here and live hence by truth?
Even so: Hector was stirring early.
And comes to his election presently.
It was my deer; and he that wounded her
And she whom mighty kingdoms court'sy to,
They would have stolen away; they would, Demetrius,
I will incontinently drown myself.
Muse not that I thus suddenly proceed;
Shall I command thy love? I may: shall I enforce
the whole wealth of thy wit in an instant? I pray
disposition, and ask me what you will. I will grant
Nature and Fortune join'd to make thee great:
The petty wrens of Tarsus will fly hence,
It could not be judged, sir.
No Valentine, if Silvia have forsworn me.
may be said to be an equivocator with lechery:
Myself have spoke in vain.
good friends for three reprieves for you and your
Well or ill,
Who pays before, but not when he does owe it.
Fitted by kind for rape and villany:
When thou shalt bring me word she loves my son,
Giving him a shilling
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS
Stand aye accursed in the calendar!
Speak this no more.
Order gave each thing view; the office did
Tut, fear not me.
It shall as level to your judgment pierce
Than for his lineal royalties and to beg
You must not so far prefer her 'fore ours of Italy.
Come, sir: did you set these women on to slander
No bond but to do just ones. Gods! if you
Art thou contented, Jew? what dost thou say?
And with uplifted arms is safe arrived
He does well in 't.
Think on Lord Hastings: despair, and die!
O, like a book of sport thou'lt read me o'er;
the prologue. If it be true that good wine needs
Re-enter Guardsman, with Clown bringing in a basket
I will tell the king all, every word, yea, and his
Answer'd my steps too loud.
To shield thee from diseases of the world;
be cheater to them both, and they shall be
Fret fetlock deep in gore and with wild rage
It comes in charity to thee: for all thy living
By all the duties that I owe to Rome,
The dauntless spirit of resolution.
If souls guide vows, if vows be sanctimonies,
His confession is taken, and it shall be read to his
Who wrought with them, and all things else that might
Would ever have, to incur a general mock,
Sorrow and grief have vanquish'd all my powers;
What, does the cuckold scorn me?
But upon the fairest boughs,
my mistress' heart, and did the act of darkness with
To hear Cominius speak, I'll keep at home.
He hath a lady, wiser, fairer, truer,
And that is my petition, noble lord:
And tell me how it works.
said, the fittest time to corrupt a man's wife is
will carry't.
Exeunt all but CERIMON
tailors, and breed ballad-makers.
Exeunt all but DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
Under the sweet shade of your government.
O limed soul, that, struggling to be free,
Our ancestor was that Mulmutius which
By your renouncement an immortal spirit,
I cannot tremble at it: were it Toad, or
That shows thou art unconfirmed. Thou knowest that
The quiet of my wounded conscience;
Good morrow to you both. What counterfeit did I give you?
And tapers burn so bright and every thing
I may not go in without your worship: they will not
While you have throats to answer: for myself,
Pattern in himself to know,
Tell him of Nestor, one that was a man
Thou call'st on him that hates thee: it was he
But if it be a sin to covet honour,
The entreaties of your mistress! satisfy!
Hath not that honour in't it had; for where
I'll do any thing now that is virtuous; but I
May it be gently heard: when we debate
Heaven is my judge, not I for love and duty,
Such a Sebastian was my brother too,
Albeit I make a hazard of my head.
So big, to hold so much; they lack retention
My lord protector's hawks do tower so well;
O good sir!
Yes, truly; for, look you, the sins of the father
Enter a Carrier with a lantern in his hand
Even to his inches, and with private soul
The weight of this sad time we must obey;
Wrought he not well that painted it?
Will he give you the nod?
If you did wear a beard upon your chin,
What we are sorry for ourselves in thee.
They'll mar my counterfeiting.
What means your ladyship? do you not like it?
Ten years are spent since first he undertook
And all-admiring with an inward wish
To kiss in private?
Lady,
And told'st me of a mistress and a dinner;
Beyond you, to your friends.
Case ye, case ye; on with your vizards: there 's
Be free as is the wind. Deliver him, Titus.
Lest over-eyeing of his odd behavior,--
That were a kind of bastard hope, indeed: so the
And though you took his life, as being our foe,
When Antony found Julius Caesar dead,
The best and soundest of his time hath been but
Since thou dost deign to woo her little worth
Say, if thou darest, proud Lord of Warwick-shire,
Away toward Bury, to the Dauphin there!
For the main soldier: whose quality, going on,
Bound to himself! what doth he with a bond
Our slow designs when we ourselves are dull.
And drive the English forth the bounds of France.
Why, I am past my gamut long ago.
Here in the lobby.
Like bulls, or rather lions: did't not wake you?
And let it be confiscate all, so soon
I hold you a penny,
And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven,
So prosper I, as I swear perfect love!
Never greater,
Drums and trumpets sound, with great shouts of the People
Walks apart
Come, go with us, we'll bring thee to our crews,
Made Lud's town with rejoicing fires bright
Enter Host, DOCTOR CAIUS, and RUGBY
This, and Saint George to boot! What think'st thou, Norfolk?
Thereby to have defeated you and me,
O, they were all in lamentable cases!
She's a most triumphant lady, if report be square to
Villains, forbear! we are the empress' sons.
desire to lay my bones there. Besides, the penitent
Hast sold me to this novice; and my heart
More than to us
If I stand here, I saw him.
Than she a woman: 'tis such fools as you
Which often hath no less prevail'd than so
Very good.
Enter LUCIO and two Gentlemen
be my lord such-a-one, that praised my lord
Why thou departed'st from thy native home
O, 'twill be admirable!
So do all thoughts; they are winged.
Unless thou let his silver water keep
Your son in Scotland being thus employ'd,
Would they make peace? terrible hell make war
The very thought of this fair company
if it were at liberty, 'twould, sure, southward.
This loam, this rough-cast and this stone doth show
A leaner action rend us. What's amiss,
Nor in a way so chaste, since my desires
Sure, these are but imaginary wiles
point, heel to head; and then, to be stopped in,
Will not debate the question of this straw:
Othello, leave some officer behind,
A pouncet-box, which ever and anon
It were a grief, so brief to part with thee: Farewell.
Would you'ld pardon me;
O, meaning you. I will go learn more of it.
Ne'er shall this blood be wiped from thy point;
Evermore weeping for your cousin's death?
access to thee.
Hence, sirs; away!
Sir,
Do me the favour to dilate at full
Of all their loyalties: wherein, although,
On which I'll toss the flower-de-luce of France.
inquire further after me; I had talk of you last
Fearing to strengthen that impatience
And in my temper soften'd valour's steel!
The matter's in my head and in my heart:
The multiplying villanies of nature
Amen!
my foes, sir I profit in the knowledge of myself,
Exeunt
strappado, or all the racks in the world, I would
To have us make denial.
take-a your rapier, and come after my heel to the court.
King Henry's faithful and anointed queen:
His countenance, like richest alchemy,
thou hast thumped him with thy bird-bolt under the
up my legs sometime, yet I made a shift to cast
What's to be thought of him? does the rumour hold
Take leave of thy old master and inquire
And made what work I pleased: 'tis not my blood
Who? Camillo?
The higher our opinion, that our stirring
Hark! you are call'd: some say the Genius so
Here's the challenge, read it: warrant there's
So to be false with her.
As well I tender you and all of yours!
Therefore I'll darkly end the argument.
Heaping confusion on their own heads thereby!
Visit his countrymen and banquet them?
To hear the rest untold: sir, lead's the way.
Should censure thus on lovely gentlemen.
When nature brought him to the door of death?
That loves his mistress more than in confession,
But if you know not this, my manners tell me
O, peace! and the spirit of humour intimate reading
And future ages groan for this foul act;
Our content
What, is he dead?
My bluest veins to kiss; a hand that kings
Here in Diana's temple.
knaves as any in Messina.
The noblest ta'en.
Brave peers of England, pillars of the state,
Spoke by a holy monk; 'that oft,' says he,
Ye're long about it.
And raise the power of France upon his head,
Enter THERSITES
Art not thou a merchant?
At pleasure here we lie near Orleans;
Will one day end it.
He lies not like the living. O my heart!
How you do leave me to mine own protection.
the devils of hell be drawn in little, and Legion
You think of other place. The ambassador,
Remember what I tell you.
Whilst my invention, hearing not my tongue,
But it confounds the breather. He should have lived,
And give our vineyards to a barbarous people.
It likes us well;
because musicians have no gold for sounding:
I still pour in the waters of my love
threatened to beat her.
swain,--I keep her as a vessel of the law's fury;
Or else the devil will make a grandsire of you:
DON
On what condition stands it and wherein?
Polixenes for Leontes: O thou thing!
As if Olympus to a molehill should
For I have heard it said
The selfsame name, but one of better nature.
With this, my lord, myself have nought to do.
O the blest gods! so will you wish on me,
Maintain--I know not what: 'tis trash. Farewell.
Forbear, for shame, my lords.
My voice is ragged: I know I cannot please you.
Exit
SCENE II. The same. The field of battle.
Not fearing the displeasure of your master,
Go ask his name: if he be married.
And no man see me more.
Exit
from my brother, that I have not all o'er-read;
One twelve moons more she'll wear Diana's livery;
always factionary on the party of your general.
I have not breathed almost since I did see it.
What a brazen-faced varlet art thou, to deny thou
Is it new and old too? how may that be?
Some misadventure.
Exit FLAVIUS. TIMON retires to his cave
Go waken Juliet, go and trim her up;
Were to incense the boar to follow us
I wonder, sir, sith wives are monsters to you,
Broke the possession of a royal bed
at home, I was in a better place: but travellers
But chiefly for thy face and thy behavior,
And sight-outrunning were not; the fire and cracks
As if but now they waxed pale for woe:
We know't, we know't.
Unmerciful lady as you are, I'm none.
A natural and prompt alacrity
Might be to you in Egypt: yet, if you there
out-paramoured the Turk: false of heart, light of
Or let us lose it. We do here pronounce,
I will not leave him now till Cassio
The moon of Rome, chaste as the icicle
youth, grieve, be effeminate, changeable, longing
That here I kiss her as my sovereign queen.
And either [         ] the devil, or throw him out
With 'Thanks, my countrymen, my loving friends;'
feelingly now?
Is this: she hath bought the name of whore
unkindest tied that ever any man tied.
This they have promised, to show your highness
And with my nails digg'd stones out of the ground,
Why, whither, Adam, wouldst thou have me go?
Not a resemblance, but a certainty. Yet since I see
I do perceive't: there's nothing in her yet:
Alack, 'tis he: why, he was met even now
Ay, on my life; and hopes to find forward
With one man beckon'd from the rest below,
Why, am I dead? do I not breathe a man?
Stoop to the block than these knees bow to any
You sway the motion of Demetrius' heart.
That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain;
And more convenient is he for my hand
Drabbing: you may go so far.
O, then, I see Queen Mab hath been with you.
And heaven defend your good souls, that you think
For ever by your grace, whose hand has raised me.
With tears drawn from her eyes by your foul wrongs.
I was then present, saw them salute on horseback;
Then fare you well, for I will hence again:
Approaching the bower
It is concluded. Banquo, thy soul's flight,
And would usurp upon my watery eyes
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
And give it to this fellow. Keep it, fellow;
And I am ready to put armour on.
water; and give him another hope, to betray him to
Some love of yours hath writ to you in rhyme.
majesty, 'tis the breathing time of day with me; let
yet it is not; it is but so so. Art thou wise?
I beseech your honour,
Might fire the blood of ordinary men,
To answer like himself: if Caesar move him,
For all the accommodations that thou bear'st
As doth befit our honour and your worth.
Consenting to the safeguard of your honour,
And thus I took the vantage of those few,
Which once perform'd, let all the world say no,
By his attorneys-general to sue
Which oft the angry Mab with blisters plagues,
Besides, you know, it draws something near to the
What heart, head, sword, force, means, but is
Your purse is not hot enough to purchase your spice.
Blunt-witted lord, ignoble in demeanor!
Ha, ha! he wears cruel garters. Horses are tied
Nay,'tis true.
I am not sent to you by my lady, to bid you come
Look him i' the face.
Than to be pitied of thee. Prithee, bring me
Descry a sail.
Love-thoughts lie rich when canopied with bowers.
That stands on tricks when I am undisposed:
An hour of revels with 'em.
Good Hubert, Hubert, Hubert, throw thine eye
Or--not to crack the wind of the poor phrase,
Exeunt KING OF FRANCE and CORDELIA
look you, it goes hard: one that I brought up of a
[Aside to NORFOLK]             Not to speak of:
Ere I could make a prologue to my brains,
With Rivers, Vaughan, Grey: and so 'twill do
To him and his usurp'd authority.
Let it not cumber your better remembrance.
What means his grace, that he hath changed his style?
Rain sacrificial whisperings in his ear,
be a list of an English kersey as be piled, as thou
Thou art not holy to belie me so;
But if the cause be not good, the king himself hath
If they but hear perchance a trumpet sound,
He needs no indirect nor lawless course
to-day, that your niece Beatrice was in love with
Lucilius' Servant	Five thousand mine.
As plays the sun upon the glassy streams,
Where's our general?
Nay, I will win my wager better yet
Hast thou denied thyself a Faulconbridge?
Where is he now?
Now Hal, to the news at court: for the robbery,
Anticipating time with starting courage.
Consider how it stands upon my credit.
The great Apollo suddenly will have
The effects of his fond jealousies so grieving
As every present time doth boast itself
These men of Angiers: let us hear them speak
What do ye talk?
For princes should be free.
You speak not as you think: it cannot be.
No; it is not possible you should love the enemy of
Why, tell me, is not this my Cambio?
Why will you kill me?
Come, come, you are a fool
I think I hear them. Stand, ho! Who's there?
is the moral of it, that she is turning, and
Exit
Make all our trumpets speak; give them all breath,
If any power pities wretched tears,
Exit
As I have set them down. If I do send, dispatch
To show us so much gentry and good will
Alas, how love can trifle with itself!
Go to, thou art a witty fool; I have found thee.
Hearest thou, Biondello?
In troth, I think she would. Fare you well, then.
Having bound up the threatening twigs of birch,
Nay, that's certain: but yet the pity of it, Iago!
I thought thy disposition better temper'd.
A post from Wales loaden with heavy news;
The mutiny he there hastes t' oppress;
entering, that if any crave redress of injustice,
Octavius, I have seen more days than you:
As truly as he moves.
Why, his masculine whore. Now, the rotten diseases
Enter OPHELIA
I dare assure thee that no enemy
And why he left your court, the gods themselves,
Suspicion all our lives shall be stuck full of eyes;
To quit the bloody wrongs upon her foes.
He, he, and you, and you, my liege, and I,
Doth cloud my joys with danger and with sorrow.
I would have had them writ more movingly.
You look wearily.
Both by the Syracusians and ourselves,
Fan you into despair! Have the power still
I see no more in you than in the ordinary
To start into her face, a thousand innocent shames
To mitigate the scorn he gives his uncle,
Answer your summons; Juno does command:
delivered him to his liberty or executed him? I
Before I positively herein:
Ay, to be murder'd by his enemies.
I say thou liest, Camillo, and I hate thee,
amiss in them, you gods, make suitable for
That thou wouldst tremble to receive thyself.
And thy abundant goodness shall excuse
Enter a third Gentleman
Exit with DORCAS and MOPSA
They have a king and officers of sorts;
fighter, though now a man of peace.
You barely leave our thorns to prick ourselves
His curses, then from bitterness of soul
I'll tell thee thou dost evil.
Sir, this is the house: please it you that I call?
Did my heart love till now? forswear it, sight!
And to fulfil his prince' desire,
Is 'old dog' my reward? Most true, I have lost my
impediment most profitably removed, without the
And in their steads do ravens, crows and kites,
To slay the innocent? What is my offence?
What have I kept back?
Yes, sooth; and so do you.
And I for such like petty crimes as these,
The sheep: the other two concludes it,--o, u.
Or cut his wezand with thy knife. Remember
of my master's horse-tail till they kiss their
Sweet lord, if your lordship were at leisure, I
Upon the wild sea banks and waft her love
I'll leave you to your fortune and be gone
Why, my lord?
away as nimbly, with as quick dexterity, and roared
And pity, like a naked new-born babe,
A man already.
For holy offices I have a time; a time
Than Marchioness of Pembroke: to which title
Ah, would she break from hence, that this my body
Where is this king? Sirs, stand you all without.
And each man have enough. Dost thou know Dover?
How shall we part with them in setting forth?
Hush!
Kills TAMORA
Excellent! why, this is the best fooling, when all
Ay, my good lord.
Your Rome about your ears.
My very heart at root.
Doth speak sufficiently he's gone to travel.
what: what have I brought you to do?
THE MADLY-USED MALVOLIO.'
And being not done, where doing tends to ill,
Their coronets say so. These are stars indeed;
With an my heart.
If where thou art two villains shall not be,
Now, Rouen, I'll shake thy bulwarks to the ground.
And he shall feel mine edge.
Enter MACMORRIS and Captain JAMY
'Fear not, Macbeth; no man that's born of woman
ruinous disorders, follow us disquietly to our
If sanctimony be the gods' delight,
This lanthorn doth the horned moon present;
To be corrupted with my worthless gifts.
Revenges burn in them; for their dear causes
ladyship behold and hear our exorcisms?
Taste of it first, as thou art wont to do.
name, friend?
year, though Hero had turned nun, if it had not been
Upon the head of this forgetful man
Why dost thou cry 'alas'?
And I, my royal sovereign.
My babes were destined to a fairer death,
Video, et gaudeo.
Transparent Helena! Nature shows art,
Until they hear the order of his death.
Most noble brother, you have done me wrong.
And yet I love him.
Lord Longaville said, I came o'er his heart;
Pursuing that that flies, and flying what pursues.'
Well learned is that tongue that well can thee commend,
DON
could not be else: I have drunk medicines. Poins!
said to a niece of King Gorboduc, 'That that is is;'
What, for being a puritan? thy exquisite reason,
The last that e'er I took her at court,
Without the privity o' the king, to appoint
Unto my end of stealing them. But, gracious sir,
My riots past, my wild societies;
My lords, you speak your pleasures:
Good Lord, how bright and goodly shines the moon!
Take pity of your town and of your people,
I confess both: they are both the varnish of a
When I have said, cry 'woe!' the queen, the queen,
Master, it is no time to chide you now;
Speak, captain, shall I stab the forlorn swain?
His breeding, sir, hath been at my charge: I have
Rank of gross diet, shall be enclouded,
Look thou be true; do not give dalliance
The Moor hath kill'd my mistress! Murder! murder!
what I am: I will now take the lecher; he is at my
Nothing but this; your true love for my master.
which he swore, as he was a soldier, he would wear
Then meet me forthwith at the notary's;
I'll note you in my book of memory,
My father's rough and envious disposition
rather die than give any sign of affection. I did
'We have seen better days.' Let each take some;
By no assay of reason: 'tis a pageant,
What, is he angry too?
Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
By us, a pair of kings. Let's from this place.
Exit IMOGEN, to the cave
live; the rest shall keep as they are. To a
The nonpareil of this. O, vengeance, vengeance!
Good faith, across: but, my good lord 'tis thus;
I would it were no worse.
One of my fellows had the speed of him,
Himself! no, he's not himself: would a' were
Have utter'd truth: which if you seek to prove,
'Faith, he to-night hath boarded a land carack:
And had his highness in his infancy
Romans, friends, followers, favorers of my right,
Take up the sword again, or take up me.
Thou, being a king, blest with a goodly son,
You shall find of the king a husband, madam; you,
Most certain. Sister, welcome: pray you,
speak plain and to the purpose, like an honest man
What does he say of Brutus?
Whether by device or no, the heavens can tell:
And throw the rider headlong in the lists,
As to us, to all the world, that Caius Marcius
And still enjoy thy regal dignity.
Shall I come upon thee with an old saying, that was
Mistress!
'Great Hector's sister did Achilles win,
A most incivil one: the wrongs he did me
I am not so well as I should be, but I'll ne'er out.
Exeunt JULIET and Nurse
Not to be spoke of;
That, from the sense of all civility,
You need it not.
I beseech you all, be better known to this
There dancing up to the chins, that the foul lake
But, woe the while! our fathers' minds are dead,
Either she hath bewitch'd me with her words,
Sir Gilbert Peck his chancellor; and John Car,
Alas, poor lady!
I'll ask him what he would. Did you call, sir?
What will become of this? As I am man,
That clogs me with this answer.'
Sing in our sweet lullaby;
Yet they do wink and yield, as love is blind and enforces.
Ever since you loved her.
[Aside]  He need not fear the sword; for his coat is of proof.
Exeunt
Her salt tears fell from her, and soften'd the stones;
Peace!--
Thou dotard! thou art woman-tired, unroosted
No, I am promised forth.
Thy spacious and dilated parts: here's Nestor;
Fair Helena in fancy following me.
But for the rest, you tell a pedigree
O, sir, I find her milder than she was;
insert again my haud credo for a deer.
Enter trumpets, sounding; then two Aldermen, Lord  Mayor, Garter, CRANMER, NORFOLK with his marshal's  staff, SUFFOLK, two Noblemen bearing great  standing-bowls for the christening-gifts; then  four Noblemen bearing a canopy, under which the  Duchess of Norfolk, godmother, bearing the child  richly habited in a mantle,  and c., train borne by a  Lady; then follows the Marchioness Dorset, the  other godmother, and Ladies. The troop pass once about the stage, and Garter speaks
What! threat you me with telling of the king?
Upon my back, to defend my belly; upon my wit, to
If you suppose as fearing you it shook.
So, Ilion, fall thou next! now, Troy, sink down!
My desolation does begin to make
Ay, marry, uncle; for I always thought
And how achieved you these endowments, which
been Anne Page, would I might never stir!--and 'tis
I shall unfold to thee, as we are going
See me in talk with thee.
Touching that point.
Now our sands are almost run;
'Tis true; the raven doth not hatch a lark:
Yet, for necessity of present life,
kind offer, when I make curtsy, bid me farewell.
Exeunt
My Lord of Somerset will keep me here,
So part we sadly in this troublous world,
With her, on her; what you will.
Exit Ghost
To cast into my teeth. O, I could weep
Bind up those tresses. O, what love I note
hangman; for I know thou worshippest St. Nicholas
Afford no extraordinary gaze,
Yet this good comfort bring I to your grace,
Signior Hortensio, I have often heard
Live scandalized and foully spoken of.
mother: thus when I shun Scylla, your father, I
Thy asses are gone about 'em. The reason why the
The sixth and last, the which the knight himself
And leave not one alive, I live in hell.
On this young man, for learning and behavior
From time to time I have acquainted you
I Pandulph, of fair Milan cardinal,
the Garter.
And to her white hand see thou do commend
And not being able to buy out his life
beseech you, be ruled by your well-willers. I will
Elves, list your names; silence, you airy toys.
Your hand, Leonato; we will go together.
the laundress in Datchet-meat; quickly, come.
Bring us where we may rest ourselves and feed:
Dost thou think I have no sense, thou strikest me thus?
We had had more sport.
Art thou so hasty? I have stay'd for thee,
Forbear; here's company.
And, to begin, wench,--so God help me, la!--
Ay, my lord.
Exit with the body
Thou hast it now: king, Cawdor, Glamis, all,
I am a simple maid, and therein wealthiest,
Death lies on her like an untimely frost
No more, I say: if thou dost plead for him,
Master young man, you, I pray you, which is the way
I bleed, sir; but not kill'd.
Enter IAGO
The common stroke of war.
Where you shall be an everlasting leiger:
As in a theatre, the eyes of men,
Why, there you touch'd the life of our design:
Exit CASSIO
He is dead and gone, lady,
Or fruitful object be
Lest parties, as he is beloved, break out,
ascent is not by such easy degrees as those who,
But meditating with two deep divines;
And never will I rise up from the ground
Here they fight. CADE falls
My lord, I hear the Marquis Dorset's fled
I know but of a single part, in aught
More than your lord's departure weep not: more's not seen;
I look'd her in the face, and saw her led
Or by his foe surprised at unawares:
Antiochus from incest lived not free:
not. But, truly, these same whoreson devils do the
No; I'll give thee thy due, thou hast paid all there.
At wakes and wassails, meetings, markets, fairs;
lamed me, I shall beg with it from door to door.
When rioting in Alexandria; you
SCENE I. London. An ante-chamber in the palace.
It waves me still.
I am no viper, yet I feed
So deal with him as I prove true to you.
Swear that he shall, and then I will begin.
Their manners are more gentle-kind than of
lord of Gloucester.
sighing and grief! it blows a man up like a
One of them is well known, my gracious lord,
Lord John of Lancaster, go you with him.
contrary, if Hero would be my wife.
Husband, I cannot pray that thou mayst win;
Two such controlling bounds shall you be, kings,
Corrupt the tender honour of a maid:
Nor no without-book prologue, faintly spoke
do you hear me, and let this count kill me. I have
ACT III
He tells her something
woman, she's a good wench for this gear. Father,
prince his master will be here to-night.
Wast you he rescued?
Poor house, that keep'st thyself!
Myself could else out-frown false fortune's frown.
o' the coxcombs with a stick, and cried 'Down,
Than your particular demands will touch it:
And see their blood, or die with this reproach.
Whiles I go tell my lord the emperor
I have consider'd of a course. Good lady,
That twenty such rude boys might tend upon
How some have been deposed; some slain in war,
The cognizance of her incontinency
Well, keep me company but two years moe,
How came it yours?
Yet give leave, my lord,
Upon this shore, where you were wreck'd, was landed,
Well may I get aboard! This is the chase:
'First of the king: what shall of him become?'
For the deposing of a rightful king.
If it be you that stir these daughters' hearts
Either thou, or I, or both, must go with him.
ANTIPHOLUS
Or in the beached margent of the sea,
Supply me with the habit and instruct me
God and his angels guard your sacred throne
By this white beard, I'ld fight with thee to-morrow.
I did not bid you mar it to the time.
Exit
all.
And creep into it far before thy time?
Left I his title out.
proceeding, it shall become him well; wherein if he
Cousin, stand forth, and look upon that man.
To-night at Herne's oak, just 'twixt twelve and one,
apparel them all in one livery, that they may agree
They retire without the door
Who they shall be that straight shall post to Ludlow.
Well, sir, there rest in your foolery. Is there any
If what thou speak'st speak not of remedy.
Truly, mine host, I must turn away some of my
And with thine own hands kill me in this place!
Say, gentlemen, what makes you thus exclaim?
Then which way shall I find Revenge's cave?
To be spoke to but by the recorder.
I do consent--
cudgel: it shall hang like a meteor o'er the
Thou cacodemon! there thy kingdom is.
Where is the gentleman that was with her?
Quoniam he seemeth in minority,
My motion, have it not in my tongue: but yet
parishioners; for their sons are well tutored by
Than I did truly find her, stakes this ring;
Nurse calls within
With any but with us.
We judge no less. Uncle of Exeter,
And pour our treasures into foreign laps,
Oh, no, no, no, no: my meaning in saying he is a
In his true nature; and we ourselves compell'd,
What time we will our celebration keep
Sneak not away, sir; for the friar and you
And all things shall be well, I warrant thee, wife:
To make the base earth proud with kissing it:
cuckold, they would make themselves whores, but
Than are upon you yet.
When she was dear to us, we did hold her so;
Uninhabitable and almost inaccessible,--
Yea, beg a hair of him for memory,
He speaks not like a man of God's making.
tell what thou art by inches, thou thing of no
Sir Thomas Erpingham, Sir John Ramston,
Why it hath bay windows transparent as barricadoes,
Lysander if you live, good sir, awake.
With principalities.
And be you silent and attentive too,
Or I am much deceived, cuckolds ere now;
That walked about me every minute-while;
And turn'd my captive state to liberty,
ailest thou, man?
When in the world I lived, I was the world's
my apron: and, Will, thou shalt have my hammer:
hole in hell were hot enough for him? This is the
My lords of England, let me tell you this:
carriage; and, as I think, his age some fifty, or,
Which never labour'd in their minds till now,
Exeunt MONTAGUE and LADY MONTAGUE
Let him seek out Rosalind.
and therefore tell me, most fair Katharine, will you
Set at liberty: the fat ribs of peace
This conduct to convey me to the Tower.
Let us condole the knight; for, lambkins we will live.
Within thy help and holy physic lies:
No leisure had he to enrank his men;
Come, but one verse.
I'll make one in a dance, or so; or I will play
Tranio, since for the great desire I had
That from the prime creation e'er she framed.'
Take that, and that: if all this will not do,
Must I behold thy timeless cruel death?
At nothing can be more. I'll to my book,
He was my friend, faithful and just to me:
Any thing like?
Please you, sir,
I hope I shall know your honour better.
Why, thou full dish of fool, from Troy.
Let us entreat you stay till after dinner.
be still, drum! for your manager is in love; yea,
The bloody proclamation to escape,
Either our history shall with full mouth
My lord, the queen would speak with you, and
Her boat hath a leak,
And pardon me, my gentle Gratiano;
And not my husband's secrets?
And point by point the treasons of his master
Bootless are plaints, and cureless are my wounds;
To fool their preparation, and to conquer
With ravishing division, to her lute.
That no king can corrupt.
Poor Clarence, by thy guile betrayed to death!
Commend me to your honourable wife:
Which daily she was bound to proffer: this
It is a bawdy planet, that will strike
Or stronger for your need.
And will by twos and threes at several posterns
Too little payment for so great a debt.
Yes, without all doubt.
What should I do? I confess it is my shame to be so
Answer, and think upon this business.
Therefore no kiss.
It is so. Are there balance here to weigh
fool, sweetest lady! By the world, I would not care
That this my death may never be forgot!
Bowing his head against the sleepy mount
Doubly divorced! Bad men, you violate
Here let us breathe and haply institute
Thou hast not left the value of a cord;
Bears not alive so stout a gentleman.
And pray'd me oft forbearance; did it with
And call him 'madam,' do him obeisance.
Is now the two hours' traffic of our stage;
As all impediments in fancy's course
Who does he accuse?
O sweet England!
It came to us, I do in justice charge thee,
I heard a bustling rumour, like a fray,
Therefore the moon, the governess of floods,
Which touching but my gentle vessel's side,
[Singing]
Little pretty, because little. Wherefore apt?
Here lie I, Timon; who, alive, all living men did hate:
He's opposite to humanity. Come, shall we in,
The stumbling night did part our weary powers?
'Tis very true: but that time offer'd sorrow;
Not he that sets his foot upon her back.
Hath he not reason to turn back an hour in a day?
sir, an ill-favoured thing, sir, but mine own; a poor
respect and acquaintance, but I find none.
Cassius,
down the door? How now! what's the matter?
So sweetly tastes, being the thing I am.
Fear me not, man; I will not break away:
them prepare dinner.
My grandam told me he was murdered there.
Trebonius: mark well Metellus Cimber: Decius Brutus
And loving farewell of our several friends.
Ay, what of that? it was my will and grant;
But so it must be, if the king miscarry.
On Wednesday next, Harry, you shall set forward;
Give him that parting kiss which I had set
Can lack persuasion? Do not tempt my misery,
The hedge-sparrow fed the cuckoo so long,
But he must die to-morrow?
should counterfeit too and rise? by my faith, I am
With stately triumphs, mirthful comic shows,
O, death's a great disguiser; and you may add to it.
And hitherto doth love on fortune tend;
For, by this heaven, now at our sorrows pale,
This is the fruit of rashness! Mark'd you not
I did never know so full a voice issue from so
in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose
His highness comes post from Marseilles, of as able
Fools do those villains pity who are punish'd
And am to Padua come, as he that leaves
Nay, 'tis most certain, Iras: saucy lictors
And too impatiently stamp'd with your foot;
[Aside]  And me, when he approacheth to your presence.
tame, and know their natures. Farewell, monsieur:
Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the
For Rome, towards Marcius.
What,
That you do lie so late?
And threat the glory of my precious crown.
For such a sum from special officers
You make a leg, and Bolingbroke says ay.
Would murder as it fell.
Your highness should deliver up your crown.
This is that face, thou cruel Angelo,
And after bite me, then like hedgehogs which
O, is it so? But why commands the king
A grave: come, arm him. Boy, he is preferr'd
Your hopes and friends are infinite.
ta'en a thousand pound this day morning.
I' the east my pleasure lies.
I'll have my brains ta'en out and buttered, and give
Some little time: so by your companies
He has much worthy blame laid upon him for shaking
So let high-sighted tyranny range on,
Why, then thou shalt not have thy husband's lands.
Than I and such a knave.
To see what friends are living, who are dead.
Something about, a little from the right,
But mine own safeties. You may be rightly just,
Nor to be seen: my crown is called content:
I tell thee, fellow,
To offer up a weak poor innocent lamb
left arm, that I amazed ran from her as a witch:
What was the second noise for?
Ay, sweet Rosalind.
To stain my cousin with: one doth not know
O, sir, your presence is too bold and peremptory,
Go hang yourself, you naughty mocking uncle!
O, but she'll keep her word.
From others' labours; for though he strive
We'll see what may be done, so you confess freely;
catch, if he knock out either of your brains: a'
Is he pursued?
To his good friends thus wide I'll ope my arms;
go to the ale with a Christian. Wilt thou go?
About, about;
Thus I conceive by him.
I have some rights of memory in this kingdom,
Since arms avail not now that Henry's dead.
My son is lost and, in my rate, she too,
He, he 'tis he.
Pray God he do! he'll never know himself else.
and much fool may you find in you, even to the
Voice and favour!
Exit SELEUCUS
What raging of the sea! shaking of earth!
I am sure, I have received none; unless experience
I'ld strive to tell you. We were dead of sleep,
Will you hear't again?
But yet so just that he will not revenge.
Lives in this bosom, dearly cherished.
You know it is the feast of Lupercal.
Death, that hath suck'd the honey of thy breath,
Could he not speak 'em fair?
I fear the power of Percy is too weak
Is now urged on you.
And so, without more circumstance at all,
You touch'd my vein at first: the thorny point
Than love that would seem hid: love's night is noon.
But by immortal Providence she's mine:
But can you teach all this you speak of?
Yield, Marcius, yield!
Here they both call him; the drawer stands amazed, not knowing which way to go
Indeed!
There did he pause: but let me tell the world,
And so I hear he doth account me too;
That death in me at others' lives may laugh.
At his heels a stone.
Exit SILVIA, with attendants
Though banish'd, yet a trueborn Englishman.
We have stretch'd thus far, let us beseech you
'Tis meet so, daughter: but lest you do repent,
Marry, sir, they have committed false report;
At 'closes in the consequence,' ay, marry;
Go and commend me to my brother Cassius;
Pluck them asunder.
Instance, briefly; come, instance.
The service that you three have done is more
Will the time serve to tell? I do not think.
Fain would I dwell on form, fain, fain deny
For giving it to me. Well, peace be with you!
father's sake, Henry the Fifth, in whose time boys
that he hath devoted and given up himself to the
Wherein I spake of most disastrous chances,
Since I must lose the use of all deceit?
Whom, like a school-boy, you may over-awe.
To wrong the dead, to wrong myself and you,
So let the Turk of Cyprus us beguile;
embraced, as it were, from the ends of opposed
rebellion of a codpiece to take away the life of a
And sing while thou on pressed flowers dost sleep;
Your bidding shall I do effectually.
If we offend, it is with our good will.
Smilest thou?
And leave me out on't. Would I had no being,
Go, call her in.
great P's. It is, in contempt of question, her hand.
He, but a duke, would have his son a king,
Exeunt
be--drunk to bed.
press in here, sir, amongst the rest of the country
Reads
Stays in his course and plays the alchemist,
entreat you,--not to fear, not to tremble: my life
We four indeed confronted were with four
Being wanted, he may be more wonder'd at,
This is thy work: the object poisons sight;
Since Henry Monmouth first began to reign,
the top of my compass: and there is much music,
What we shall say we have and what we owe.
True, my lord.
Lest that thy wives with spits and boys with stones
Chaplain, away! thy priesthood saves thy life.
Might be the be-all and the end-all here,
That will the king severely prosecute
had rather than forty shillings I had such a leg,
Enter ULYSSES
With promise of his sister, and what else,
He that retires I'll take him for a Volsce,
I am an ass, indeed; you may prove it by my long
thou art sad; get thee a wife, get thee a wife:
O, Apemantus, you are welcome.
Whom from the flow of gall I name not but
When I wore it at your daughter's marriage?
Where's Caius Marcius?
You could not with more tame a tongue desire it:
Cry, Cock-a-diddle-dow.
Nay, it is in a manner done already;
Think on thy Proteus, when thou haply seest
That the main harvest reaps: loose now and then
Sweet lady, you have given me life and living;
And some ten voices cried 'God save King Richard!'
And he wears jewels now of Timon's gift,
Ever to conquer, and to have his worth
to the yielding, had I admittance and opportunity to friend.
Exit
Sister, content you in my discontent.
And not depending on his friendly wish.
been as proper?
Therefore, for God's sake, entertain good comfort,
Well, the voice goes, madam:
How may I reverently worship thee enough?
Ajax, your guard, stays to conduct you home.
To make these doubts all even.
Either I must, or have mine honour soil'd
pastime with us a day or two, or longer: if
A thousand thanks, and pray 'em take their pleasures.
To County Paris: then comes she to me,
ANTIPHOLUS
To tell thee whence thou camest, of whom derived,
Mock not, Enobarbus.
The grave of your deserving; Rome must know
By playing it to me with so sour a face.
And art mine own. I know not why, wherefore,
And yet go current from suspicion!
Are come to play a pleasant comedy;
Be given to your remembrance--the description
stuff his suspicion more fully.--I will persevere in
And renowned be thy grave!
Uncle, how now!
To-morrow, as he purposes.
I am thy prisoner: wilt thou suffer them
For nature to endure.
Strike those that make them; and their story is
Is 't not the king?
She that would be your wife now ran from you.
A plague upon them! wherefore should I curse them?
Cannot choose but ever weep the friend.
And think my patience, more than thy desert,
Enter LUCIUS, IACHIMO, the Soothsayer, and other  Roman Prisoners, guarded; POSTHUMUS LEONATUS behind, and IMOGEN
Swear me, Kate, like a lady as thou art,
Poor Tom's a-cold.
Banish'd the kingdom! Patience, is that letter,
but if you say, 'Marry her,' I will marry her; that
Or has given all before, and he begins
A jewel, lock'd into the wofull'st cask
I am constant to my purpose; they follow the king's
Shall now, in mutual well-beseeming ranks,
Exeunt Shepherd and Clown
Nay, come away.
To gripe the general sway into your hand;
Yet nature's tears are reason's merriment.
but hurt not.
Mark him; note him. O brave Troilus! Look well upon
'Tis to be doubted he would waken him.
What?
To come! O, give me cord, or knife, or poison,
Re-enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR and all his train marching
I will be silent.
Enter EDGAR disguised as a mad man
A lass unparallel'd. Downy windows, close;
And brought in matter that should feed this fire;
be a clipper.
The heavy gait of night. Sweet friends, to bed.
Enter FLUELLEN
The hope and expectation of thy time
Valour and pride excel themselves in Hector;
Ay, my lord.
Upon a labouring day without the sign
To MONTANO, who is led off
Now, mistress, how chance you went not with Master Slender?
in all my life.
Would I were dead, but that, methinks, already--
When you and I met at Saint Alban's last,
Can this dark monarchy afford false Clarence?'
When every feather sticks in his own wing,
The woods are ruthless, dreadful, deaf, and dull;
Of Hymen's purest bed! thou valiant Mars!
Each small annexment, petty consequence,
As much for my poor brother as myself:
and see if you can see my master, Master Doctor
If ever I live to see it, I will challenge it.
Your praise is come too swiftly home before you.
Then give me leave to read philosophy,
Keep you your word, O duke, to give your daughter;
Leave, gentle wax; and, manners, blame us not:
And, if the rest be true which I have heard,
To seek him here that means not to be found.
[Aside]  Why, I were best to cut my left hand off
If we have entrance, as I hope we shall,
You have good leave to leave us: when we need
The duke hath put on a religious life
That water-walled bulwark, still secure
That have afflictions on them, knowing 'tis
How?
To pray for this good man and for his issue,
Preposterous ass, that never read so far
For such things in a false disloyal knave
What an arm he has! he turned me about with his
Each minute, some.
He was a bachelor then.
And what may follow,
He well may be a stranger, for he comes
the hour, if it so hap. Cheerly, good hearts! Out
No, no, the drink, the drink,--O my dear Hamlet,--
Madame, came nothing else along with that?
Been well inform'd of them; and with such cautions,
And secretly to greet the empress' friends.
Then give my tongue like leave to love my head.
qualities were level; Dian no queen of virgins, that
Be the jacks fair within, the jills fair without,
her help to put you in your place again: she is of
He should receive his punishment in thanks:
Enter two Keepers, with cross-bows in their hands
For what, lieutenant? for well using me?
Delivers in such apt and gracious words
I will discase me, and myself present
Exeunt
You clasp young Cupid's tables. Good news, gods!
Can tell so much: shall Banquo's issue ever
Be not afeard; the isle is full of noises,
with their left legs and not presume to touch a hair
Well, let it not be doubted but he'll come:
Would none but I might venge my cousin's death!
SCENE III. A room in Capulet's house.
I saw the handkerchief.
Did not deserve corn gratis. Being i' the war
Idly supposed the founder of this law;
They do confound their skill in covetousness;
A marvellous witty fellow, I assure you: but I
With all good grace to grace a gentleman.
Yet, Marcius, that was much. Your hand: most welcome!
Unto the wished haven of my bliss.
To make a false one.
instrument you will, though you can fret me, yet you
And thus still doing, thus he pass'd along.
like three German devils, three Doctor Faustuses.
Give me thy hand. Who's there?
Nay, I'll fit you,
[Behind]  O, I am slain!
Which we devise him.
And reason flies the object of all harm:
The inevitable prosecution of
Comb down his hair; look, look! it stands upright,
Gentle my liege,--
Peace be at your labour, honest fishermen.
Enter FALSTAFF
To make you brothers, and to knit your hearts
Exeunt PRINCESS, ROSALINE, KATHARINE, and MARIA
Here is a lady that wants breathing too:
Till painful study shall outwear three years,
make shift to go without him.
Art thou god to shepherd turn'd,
Old Nestor tarries; and you too, Diomed,
Out of the Duke of Buckingham.
To fright the souls of fearful adversaries,
O Cleopatra! thou art taken, queen:
That shouldst repair my youth, thou heap'st
For ever may my knees grow to the earth,
I do not bid thee beg my life, good lad;
rose; it was the death of him.
Nay, patience, or we break the sinews of our plot.
Varro's Servant	'Twas due on forfeiture, my lord, six weeks And past.
Why, she's neither fish nor flesh; a man knows not
Why, we are still handling our ewes, and their
And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught--
I' fecks!
What cause of suspicion! Out pon you! how am I
Stood heir to the first. Now, sir, be judge yourself,
Take thrice thy money; bid me tear the bond.
To answer mildly; for they are prepared
Exit DIONYZA
Come, woo me, woo me, for now I am in a holiday
The present money to discharge the Jew,
With drooping fog as black as Acheron,
Will you buy any tape,
And then let Kate be chaste and Dian sportful!
your honour.
And be you kings, command, and I'll obey.
When tongues speak sweetly, then they name her name,
What further you will do.
A most unhappy one: I would do much
Craves the conveyance of a promised march
For thou must now know farther.
hath tamed my old master and my new mistress and
And the vile squealing of the wry-neck'd fife,
Break thou in pieces and consume to ashes,
But, gentle sir, methinks you walk like a stranger:
Come, come, thou reverend man of Rome,
With all my heart, I'll gossip at this feast.
Contain thyself, good friend.
His pleasure; may be he will relent. Alas,
And ta'en, I fear.
too was no good divinity. When the rain came to
Where feed'st thou o' days, Apemantus?
And they, well mock'd, depart away with shame.
am a Jew, if I serve the Jew any longer.
Her wagon-spokes made of long spiders' legs,
To mow down thorns that would annoy our foot,
Yet did repent me, after more advice;
[To KING RICHARD III]
And I will answer unpremeditated:
false report of him.
Soft! who comes here? A friend of Antony's.
Trouble him no further; thus you still shall find him.
A plague upon that villain Somerset,
pathetical!
O Antony,
Exeunt all but DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS and MENAS
I'll answer to my lust: and know you, lord,
Ay, I would I were deaf; it makes me have a slow heart.
In humblest manner I require your highness,
So be my grave my peace, as here I give
Enter LOVELL
Do you with cheeks abash'd behold our works,
Neither of these are so bad as thou art,
And then the power of Scotland and of York,
Must bring this monstrous birth to the world's light.
[Returning]  My lord, I would I might entreat
and it shall be said so again while Stephano
There have been,
He's simple and tells much.
Meaning me a beast.
And make a dearth in this revolting land.
And not have title of an earldom here.
Will you go along with us?
With sharp constraint of hunger; better 'twere
Where my son lies. When did you lose your daughter?
So virgin-like without? Lo, here she comes.
May well abate the over-merry spleen
Exeunt
To line and new repair our towns of war
as bad a kind, Achilles: and now is the cur Ajax
Enter ADRIANA, LUCIANA, the Courtezan, and others
live like a poor gentleman born.
He goes hence frowning: but it honours us
Call'st thou that harm?
And do you now put on your best attire?
married the yeoman of the wardrobe.
You know the goodness I intend upon you:
The nobles they are fled, the commons they are cold,
And I'll be sworn 'tis true: travellers ne'er did
That this his love was an eternal plant,
If virtue no delighted beauty lack,
To scatter 'em, as 'tis to make 'em sleep
How deep?
My lord of Salisbury, we have stay'd ten days,
all three all ready.
Or, by Saint Paul, I'll strike thee to my foot,
Well, thou wert be horribly chid tomorrow when thou
Flourish. Enter DUKE FREDERICK, Lords, ORLANDO, CHARLES, and Attendants
I am for other business.
And lose by over-running. Know you not,
clap him and hiss him, according as he pleased and
Who should have died when Claudio lost his head;
A noise within
Because he's guilty, and he is not guilty:
Here is my hand; the premises observed,
His company must do his minions grace,
Each toy seems prologue to some great amiss:
'Tis Troilus' fault: come, come, to field with him.
May hourly trample on their sovereign's head;
O wise young judge, how I do honour thee!
I know his gait, 'tis he.--Villain, thou diest!
Conveniently the rest convey;
Mine own, nor any thing to any, if
And all things change them to the contrary.
'Call me not fool till heaven hath sent me fortune:'
cannot hale them together. For Andrew, if he were
Now sits the wind fair, and we will aboard.
Were not revenge sufficient for me;
Thy fifty yet doth double five and twenty,
Shipwrecking storms and direful thunders break,
Or rather, call my thought a certain knowledge--
To you I give myself, for I am yours.
That's my brave boy!
Fie, savage, fie!
You tender more your person's honour than
My fan, Peter.
'Twixt you there's difference; but the fall of either
No more yielding but a dream,
Giving a paper
And fill'd with honour, to my kingly guest
Faint-hearted boy, arise, and look upon her.
Those men you talk of came into my mind.
Pardon, madam;
Whose power was in the first proportion,
away where my hogshead of wine is, or I'll turn you
Not with vain thanks, but with acceptance bounteous,
SCENE VI. Before Macbeth's castle.
cheese will do 't. There's my gauntlet; I'll prove
To wall thee from the liberty of flight;
She's a good creature, and, sweet lady, does
And now no more ado, brave Burgundy,
He cannot come, my lord; he is grievous sick.
Directly, I am going to Caesar's funeral.
Have banish'd me from Scotland. O my breast,
Then after fight who shall be king of it?
But when ye have the honey ye desire,
All of one nature, of one substance bred,
Here Aaron is; and what with Aaron now?
On what compulsion must I? tell me that.
Why came I hither but to that intent?
pass for a wise man: for what says Quinapalus?
And then, I hope, thou wilt be satisfied.
M,--but then there is no consonancy in the sequel;
Power into will, will into appetite;
You here at Milford-Haven with your ships:
Summon'd me hither, to this short-grass'd green?
I am Revenge: sent from the infernal kingdom,
You were about to speak.
Is added to her wounds: I think withal
To AGAMEMNON
king: it may concern much. Stay not thy
As there is no firm reason to be render'd,
say, you cannot pass. Therefore, go back.
he should take his choice. O admirable man! Paris?
The smell whereof shall breed a plague in France.
My friends,--
a hair; and I'll be sworn my pocket was picked. Go
Your will?
know how I speed; and the conclusion shall be
Farewell, pretty lady: you must hold the credit of
Is colder than that theme, 'She had not been,
As if the golden fee for which I plead
marries Aliena, shall you marry her: I know into
Richmond! When last I was at Exeter,
Canst thou catch any fishes, then?
The flesh-fly blow my mouth. Hear my soul speak:
And let him know so.
Peter!
I should have fatted all the region kites
of Limbo and of Furies and I know not what: yet I
The queen shall then have courtesy, so she
Why writes she so to me? Well, shepherd, well,
How now, good fellow! wouldst thou speak with us?
O barbarous and bloody spectacle!
You turn the good we offer into envy.
Body o' me, where is it?
To call for recompense. Appear it to your mind
No, no, I am but shadow of myself:
And hate the idle pleasures of these days.
I must have leave to pass.
Exeunt
There, an't shall please you; a foolish mild man; an
For he hath witness of his servant's malice:
False blood to false blood join'd! gone to be friends!
O, ay: stalk on. stalk on; the fowl sits. I did
Go fetch them hither to us presently.
A fool, sir, at a woman's service, and a knave at a man's.
In doing daily wrongs. I could say more,
he is, and in the hottest day prognostication
I to the world am like a drop of water
But that my resolution helps me. Milford,
forsake your liberty.
To second ills with ills, each elder worse,
Come, I will bring thee to thy bridal chamber.
In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
Affliction till it do cry out itself
To put the finger in the eye and weep,
And therefore take the present time,
Kind keepers of my weak decaying age,
So many hours must I take my rest;
Why, what should be the fear?
hath the jealous fool to her husband! I suspect
But William of Hatfield died without an heir.
My people do already know my mind,
Thyself upon thy virtues, they on thee.
That grew the more by reaping: his delights
So many greedy looks of young and old
Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.
Your own is yours, and I am yours, and all.
gently considered, I'll bring you where he is
Who knows not he is dead! who knows he is?
A Grecian's life hath sunk; for every scruple
And mine shall.
O Perdita, what have we twain forgot!
Your loving uncle, twenty times his worth,
list of a country's fashion: we are the makers of
To gain the timely inn; and near approaches
Trust not to rotten planks: do you misdoubt
Call her divine.
I will do any modest office, my lord, to help my
As did that one, and that, in my regard,
So I might have your company in hell,
Shall have my Bianca's love.
The present consul, and last general
Merely in hate, 'gainst any of us all,
Nay, good my lord, be not afraid of shadows.
'Tis most true:
The king hath sent him, sure: I must dissemble.
Mislead night-wanderers, laughing at their harm?
Why, will shall break it; will and nothing else.
Is it the fashion, that discarded fathers
But that thy brothers beat aside the point.
Exit
By your eyes' anguish.
No, I protest, I know not the contents:
Nay, sit, nay, sit, good cousin Capulet;
At what hour to-morrow
'Faith, and I'll send him packing.
To a prepared place in the choir, fell off
you could go backward.
So thrive I in my dangerous attempt
I have great hope in that; for in her youth
with an iron wit, and put up my iron dagger. Answer
But what was true and very full of proof.
How far is it, my lord, to Berkeley now?
Stand away, Captain Gower; I will give treason his
Of merchant-marring rocks?
mother, and to Master Peascod, your father. Good
To be no better than a homely swain;
O, thou art deceived; I would have made it short:
speciously one of them; Mistress Ford, good heart,
If he were putting to my house the brand
I will not.
I thank you for my venison, Master Shallow.
what straits of fortune she is driven; and it is
God give us leisure for these rites of love!
Fall down before him, like the mower's swath:
The imperial jointress to this warlike state,
For though mine enemy thou hast ever been,
And so espoused to death, with blood he seal'd
with a shame as ample.
Brave me upon the watch; whereon it came
Banish your dotage; banish usury,
that, 'twas a pricket that the princess killed.
It is not that that hath incensed the duke:
Action and accent did they teach him there;
And love you 'gainst the nature of love,--force ye.
Till their soul-fearing clamours have brawl'd down
Boldly, at least. But, O, poor souls,
Provided that, when he's removed, your highness
The mighty dukes
Why, then I see
What, do you grumble? I'll be with you straight.
I have cried her almost to the number of her hairs;
him, draw; and, as thou drawest swear horrible; for
and quickly too. Farewell.
I do not love to look on.
Than arm thy constant and thy nobler parts
Content.
Re-enter LUCIUS
And let him learn to know, when maidens sue,
to thirteen, this spirit walks in.
Good madonna, why mournest thou?
That any Englishman dare give me counsel?
And, not reform'd, may prove pernicious.
Without that title. Romeo, doff thy name,
Where she remains now sick.
Mail'd up in shame, with papers on my back,
Adieu, good queen; I must attend on Caesar.
Enter Second Merchant and ANGELO
skill in grass.
Our captain hath in every figure skill,
Anne the jest, how my father stole two geese out of
only downright oaths, which I never use till urged,
more French: I shall never move thee in French,
Often have you heard that told:
His very air, that I should call you brother,
letter: I have ere now, sir, been better known to
Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
that time the jealous rascally knave her husband
Ah, uncle Humphrey! in thy face I see
Exit
And as for these whose ransom we have set,
SCENE III. The same.
Cast her fair eyes to heaven and pray'd devoutly.
gentler gamester is the soonest winner.
If he suppose that I have pleaded truth,
Monsieur Le Beau.
His words are bonds, his oaths are oracles,
This news distracts me!
That shapes man better; and they follow him,
It is not well done, mark you now take the tales out
This sudden sending him away must seem
the anatomy.
To extol what it hath done.
I must not believe you:
Strew good luck, ouphes, on every sacred room:
Speak, Iachimo: I had you down and might
I would you had kneel'd, my lord, to ask me mercy,
That is the least, Lucetta, of my fear:
Have holp to make so portly.
Yet, for a greater confirmation,
Corrupted honest men! Dispatch.--Enobarbus!
be many that they have loved, they know not
more was this knight swearing by his honour, for he
That some plain man recount their purposes
That he did plot the Duke of Gloucester's death,
something in't that stings his nature; for on the
Thisne;' 'Ah, Pyramus, lover dear! thy Thisby dear,
next him now, parts bread with him, pledges the
Truly, she must be given, or the marriage is not lawful.
For at Saint Mary's chapel presently
Which, though thou wouldst deny, denies thee vantage.
For your own ladies and pale-visaged maids
Your cares set up do not pluck my cares down.
Must not be shed by such a jaded groom.
Hang him, dishonest varlet! we cannot misuse him enough.
how can that be true love which is falsely
Re-enter CURIO and Clown
What is more cordial. Nay, I prethee, take it;
[Aside to DOCTOR CAIUS]  Pray you, use your patience:
compound of villanous smell that ever offended nostril.
As I had title in thy noble husband!
to three kings in a forenoon, and widow them all:
Not yet enjoy'd: so tedious is this day
Alarum. Exeunt
You know my father hath no child but I, nor none is
Exit with Third Fisherman
They set him free without his ransom paid,
Never so little show of love to her,
Lord Saturnine; whose virtues will, I hope,
Why the wrong is but a wrong i' the world: and
And like an eagle o'er his aery towers,
For Warwick bids you all farewell to meet in heaven.
Flow this way! A brave fellow! he keeps his tides
Get thee away.
And with your puissant arm renew their feats:
This is a sorry sight.
Hail, Caesar, and my lord! hail, most dear Caesar!
SCENE I. Before Alexandria. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's camp.
Good aunt, you wept not for our father's death;
I list not prophecy; but let Time's news
Sweet hearts, we shall be rich ere we depart,
To woo your lady:
Nay, I must hold you.
deal justly with me: come, come; nay, speak.
And left sweet Pyramus translated there:
Entirely to her love, but if she lost it
It hath not appeared.
That were the opposites of this day's strife:
Thy half o' the kingdom hast thou not forgot,
Myself to see the issue.
This is hard and undeserved measure, my lord.
In faith, for little England
Thou yard, three-quarters, half-yard, quarter, nail!
A frank one.
There be fools alive, I wis,
Think'st thou I jest? Hold, take thou that, and that.
Bishop of Exeter, his brother there,
Whose glory fills the world with loud report.
May a man do it?
Startles and frights consideration,
Are of two houses: lawful mercy
This before all the world do I prefer;
What, for a counter, would I do but good?
Why, look you, how you storm!
Repented o'er his doom.
Whom we invite to see us crown'd at Scone.
Exit
But your request shall make me let it pass.
Pardon, my gracious lord; for I submit
Quake in the present winter's state and wish
Mecaenas; ask Agrippa.
The burthen of my sorrows fall upon ye.
Which casket 'twas I chose; next, if I fail
Flourish. Exeunt
Armed, brother!
And wouldst thou have me cast my love on him?
And I will speak, that so my heart may burst.
More strange than true: I never may believe
In thunder and in earthquake, like a Jove,
[Above]  How now, mine host!
So did he me: and he no more remembers his mother
None but his enemies.
And 'tis not wisdom thus to second grief
It is apart
There are pretty orders beginning, I can tell you:
Gloucestershire.
I must away to-day, before night come:
To draw their swords: but how the fear of us
Which till this time my tongue did ne'er pronounce,
He is more patient
To see us here unarm'd: I have a woman's longing,
Full of wise saws and modern instances;
Who's that at door? good uncle, go and see.
And Montague our topmost; what of him?
I understand you not: my griefs are double.
To do you justice, make them ministers
Then what should war be? This fell whore of thine
Thou orphans' father art,
The pedant, the braggart, the hedge-priest, the fool
Still have I tarried.
and did the third a blessing against his will; if
A plague upon this howling! they are louder than
sunken, which you have not, an unquestionable
and a soldier; and now is he turned orthography; his
I pray thee, leave me to my self to-night,
Thou wast installed in that high degree.
Pray God, I say, I prove a needless coward!
How he refell'd me, and how I replied,--
Marry, hang her up for ever!
Why, then the world's mine oyster.
fortune; honour for his valour; and death for his
the letter: she sends him on purpose, that I may
That misbegotten devil, Faulconbridge,
A Marshalsea shall hold ye play these two months.
There is none: man, sitting down before you, will
I thank your worship: God be wi' you!
he was a wise fellow, and had good discretion, that,
And if it please you, so; if not, why, so.
Let senses rule; the word is 'Pitch and Pay:'
Hum--conspiracy!--'Sleep till I waked him,--you
Since kings break faith upon commodity,
For they succeed on you. To you, lord governor,
To such abhorr'd pollution.
Nay, now thou goest from Fortune's office to
Exit
Exit SILVIUS
That you, his friend, are in; and sends me forth--
gives a good report to a number to be chaste.
My life upon't, young though thou art, thine eye
Exeunt all but PRINCE HENRY and FALSTAFF
He cried almost to roaring; and he wept
ACT IV
Till you have heard me in my true complaint
My father's loss, like a most royal prince,
And hearing your high majesty is touch'd
But, if't be he I mean, he's very wild;
Enter DERCETAS, with the sword of MARK ANTONY
We are not thieves, but men that much do want.
But him outlive, and die a violent death.
Came of a gentle kind and noble stock,
I'll whip thee with a rod: he is defiled
Swallows some
The fires i' the lowest hell fold-in the people!
Who, as 'tis thought, by self and violent hands
Thou'rt i' the right. Go, sir, rub your chain with
O the good gods!
At ample point all that I did possess,
Withhold revenge, dear God! 'tis not my fault,
Be that thou know'st thou art, and then thou art
Exeunt
Though the nature of our quarrel yet never brooked
he have wit enough to keep himself warm, let him
Treason and murder ever kept together,
Lord governor, for so we hear you are,
not trouble them. Come, bring away thy pack after
Or, being open, put into his hands
In honestest defence.
Your mistress bears well.
Her head's declined, and death will seize her, but
Know, then, that some of us are gentlemen,
Well done, my lord.
Who in unnecessary action swarm
Ay; 'tis an honester service than to meddle with thy
Come down.
It will be dangerous to go on: no further.
The crickets sing, and man's o'er-labour'd sense
I take it, she that carries up the train
Ay, sir; where lies that? if 'twere a kibe,
O, I am known
This way the king will come; this is the way
Either for life or death, upon the earth
Thou art my warrior;
Or to her death, according to our law
I shaked you, sir, and cried: as mine eyes open'd,
You make me marvel: wherefore ere this time
To Luciana
Fear not you that. Go get us properties
And for your rapier most especially,
I wonder if Titania be awaked;
That Tiber trembled underneath her banks,
Who went with him to search Bassanio's ship.
But what your jealousies awake, I tell you
Ay; prithee, sing.
Thou wall, O wall, O sweet and lovely wall,
knows more of Anne's mind than I do; nor can do more
My tailor made them not.
My accuser is my 'prentice; and when I did correct
Zounds! I was never so bethump'd with words
This will I also wear in my cap: if ever thou come
Wanton in fulness, seek to hide themselves
Is counted lost for ever, Perdita,
You, ladies, you, whose gentle hearts do fear
That once was mistress of the field and flourish'd,
And for what cause thou camest to Ephesus.
Let us come in, that we may bind him fast
But, soft! my door is lock'd. Go bid them let us in.
The mind shall banquet, though the body pine:
The courtier's, soldier's, scholar's, eye, tongue, sword;
Enter CYMBELINE, BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, ARVIRAGUS, PISANIO, Lords, Officers, and Attendants
The point!--envenom'd too!
Now it is supper-time in Orleans:
I cannot be bated one doit of a thousand pieces.
Ay, that there was, mine host; one that hath taught
How bravely thou becomest thy bed, fresh lily,
I had fear'd death, of all the men i' the world
Shall fly out of itself: nor sleep nor sanctuary,
Feign'd Fortune to be throned: the base o' the mount
forget that thou art Jove, the king of gods and,
Who parted with me to go fetch a chain,
Here is like to be a good presence of Worthies. He
But yet I'll go in hate, to feed upon
I am the master of my speeches, and would undergo
For testimony of her foul proceedings:
[Within]  My lord, is the lady ready?
heaven; here's no place for you maids:' so deliver
Being destined to a drier death on shore.
It will outrun you, father, in the end.
Thoughts tending to ambition, they do plot
And having thrown him from your watery grave,
As he was born. The king he takes the babe
The other, Walter Whitmore, is thy share.
He heard the name of death.
That you would love yourself, and in that love
By every syllable a faithful verity:
The seal'd-up oracle, by the hand deliver'd
Seeing that death, a necessary end,
For my part, noble lords, I care not which;
So thou, that hast no unkind mate to grieve thee,
Thrust but these men away, and I'll forgive you,
They are set here for examples.
Whose beauty did astonish the survey
Come, let's return again, and suffice ourselves with
you say honestly.
And bring me how he takes my death.
Thou hast redeem'd thy lost opinion,
My dukedom to a beggarly denier,
Is self from self: a deadly banishment!
Tell me what state, what dignity, what honour,
This is the strangest tale that ever I heard.
As brings a thousand-fold more care to keep
When he intendeth to become the field:
The ship is in her trim; the merry wind
I cannot speak him home: he stopp'd the fliers;
SCENE II. A street.
As he will lose his head ere give consent
and knock down! throw them into Thames!
Seventh sweet, adieu:
It is so varied, too; for it was proclaimed 'virgin.'
Perpetual durance?
When he did need your loves, and do you think
And yet I'll promise thee she shall be rich
raw rheumatic day!
They belch us. Look you, Cassio and my husband!
Let him not die. My brother had but justice,
So follow, to be most unlike our courtiers,
If I should pay you for't as 'tis extoll'd,
Allons! we will employ thee.
Which out of daily fortune ever taints
Shed seas of tears and ne'er be satisfied!
Provoked by him, you cannot--the great danger
And never show thy head by day nor light.
I am justly kill'd with mine own treachery.
If thou canst serve where thou dost stand condemn'd,
An if he may, then am I lawful king;
You do blaspheme the good in mocking me.
as Volscians. They are rising, they are rising.
His soldiers spying his undaunted spirit
First kiss me, Kate, and we will.
Night and silence.--Who is here?
Why, how now, Cromwell!
Shut up in prison, kept without my food,
Did they this Harry. Now in London place him;
What say you to young Master Fenton? he capers, he
He hath abused your powers.
And happily may your sweet self put on
le Grand; which holy undertaking with most austere
So I may keep mine eyes: O, spare mine eyes.
[Aside]  Short summers lightly have a forward spring.
How yet resolves the governor of the town?
Well worth a poor man's taking: fairies and gods
I will be bound to pay it ten times o'er,
take me by the hand, and say 'Harry of England I am
The benefit of our levies, answering us
more delicate way than drowning. Make all the money
to continue now, thou varlet; thou art to continue.
Well then, confess and live.
Enter a Servant
Here comes Thersites.
Go bid thy mistress, when my drink is ready,
And sails upon the bosom of the air.
With thy grapes our hairs be crown'd:
My lord, I like not of this flight of Edward's;
Play the recanter, feeling in itself
Send us your prisoners, or you will hear of it.
If not, I'll die your maid: to be your fellow
Isidore's Servant	From Isidore;
I see thy glory like a shooting star
I would, that I might thank you as you call me.
Pray you, let's have no more fooling about it, but
With that she sighed as she stood,
Very well.
SCENE III. A street.
Shylock thy master spoke with me this day,
Sir John and Sir Hugh Mortimer, mine uncles,
His equal had awaked them, and his honour,
After his patient's death: the king already
O, pardon, that I name them! Your high self,
Fly o'er our heads and downward look on us,
Not for Bohemia, nor the pomp that may
nothing, nuncle?
Come, enter with us. Ladies, you deserve
Can hide you from our messengers of war,
Itself with strength: seal then, and all is done.
To thick-eyed musing and cursed melancholy?
I must of another errand to Sir John Falstaff from
Let go my hand.
A valiant and most expert gentleman. Would it were
Come, shall we hear this music?
Well, fare you well: we shall have the freer wooing
Give the word, ho! and stand.
I will not tarry; no, nor ever more
thankfully. I will piece out the comfort with what
Are you a courtier, an't like you, sir?
make a circle; if conjure up love in her in his true
She's so conjunctive to my life and soul,
and for so much as I have perused, I find it not
CARDINAL
They have all new legs, and lame ones: one would take it,
Both stile and gate, horse-way and foot-path. Poor
'Tis certain she is fled.
Till then I'll sweat and seek about for eases,
Exit EDMUND
Coriolanus will carry it.
Art thou a churchman?
One dowle that's in my plume: my fellow-ministers
As toss'd it upon shore.
See riot and dishonour stain the brow
Limehouse, their dear brothers, are able to endure.
Speak, Edmund, where's the king? and where's Cordelia?
Have all his ventures fail'd? What, not one hit?
Antick'd us all. What needs more words? Good night.
What good is cover'd with the face of heaven,
All matter else seems weak: she cannot love,
like the witch of Brentford.
of either's moiety.
The graves stood tenantless and the sheeted dead
As dangerous as the rest. Your time's expired:
As cause had call'd you up, have held him to
town, are come to fetch you to church.
Your mother well hath pray'd, and prove you true.
Mother, good night. Indeed this counsellor
The carriages, sir, are the hangers.
It might have been recovered.
She hath not yet forgot him: some more time
Gives Bassanio a letter
Filths savour but themselves. What have you done?
And you in hell, as oft as he hears Owen Glendower spoke of.
My honest lads, I will tell you what I am about.
By some illusion see thou bring her here:
Why force you this?
park; which, put together, is in manner and form
Is this the honour they do one another?
Ancient, what makes he here?
Do not betray me, sir. I fear you love Mistress Page.
Where hast thou sent the king?
Now good or bad, 'tis but the chance of war.
Vows for thee broke deserve not punishment.
Ca, ha! he bounds from the earth, as if his
Sung thee asleep, his loving breast thy pillow:
could turn your eyes toward the napes of your necks,
All preparation for a bloody siege
Then there is the County Palatine.
But tell the Dauphin I will keep my state,
They answer, in a joint and corporate voice,
As the dog Jew did utter in the streets:
Where your brave father breathed his latest gasp,
Or Charles or something weaker masters thee.
Where's the lord governor?
Go give him courteous conduct to this place.
Be comforted, dear madam.
I had no mind
[To VIOLA]  There's no remedy, sir; he will fight
Good night then, Casca: this disturbed sky
Thy skipping spirit, lest through thy wild behavior
Appear in person here in court. Silence!
Yet is this no charm for the toothache. Old
I should inform thee farther. Lend thy hand,
The inhospitable Cleon; but I am
I see report is fabulous and false:
Or if it be, 'tis with false sorrow's eye,
And hath bereft thee of thy life too late!
For those that mingle reason with your passion
Are words and poor conditions, but unseal'd,
And by the merit of vile gold, dross, dust,
I'll make her come, I warrant you, presently.
SCENE VIII. Before KING HENRY'S pavilion.
To you that know them not. This to my mother:
Here's my son, sir, a poor boy,--
Puff'd his own brother:--and can he be angry?
In bolted language; meal and bran together
Amen. A man may, if he were of a fearful heart,
I learnt it out of women's faces. Pray now
Ay, if I ever saw him before and knew him.
Why, I pray you?
Will but amount to five and twenty thousand,
So soon as yours could win me: so it should now,
And borne her cleanly by the keeper's nose?
Unworthy as I am, to follow you.
By that which he will utter?
So may it be, indeed:
You that will be less fearful than discreet,
and my good friend Petruchio! How do you all at Verona?
him from the pridge.
Alas, poor chin! many a wart is richer.
Dear for her reputation through the world,
As you feel doing thus; and see withal
His hour of speech a minute; he, my lady,
To set his sense on the attentive bent,
When I should take possession of the bride,
I do desire we may be better strangers.
Whiles that his mountain sire, on mountain standing,
direction. Be gone, and come when you are called.
plebeians: I will be bold to take my leave of you.
And wish, for her sake more than for mine own,
Even in the strength and height of injury!
I never swore this lady such an oath.
Therefore, sweet Proteus, my direction-giver,
Proteus, the good conceit I hold of thee--
One syllable against him?
And never more have joy.
Cry, Trojans, cry! lend me ten thousand eyes,
With franker spirit: therefore, as I am bound,
I was not much afeard; for once or twice
Enter HOLOFERNES, SIR NATHANIEL, and DULL
On Thursday next be married to this county.
That her wide walls encompass'd but one man?
Stew'd in his haste, half breathless, panting forth
'Though all at once cannot
He would depart, I'll give some light unto you.
maids are May when they are maids, but the sky
'Tis not for you to hear what I can speak:
argument in;
'Tis conceived to scope.
a wooden dagger; and they are both hanged; and so
'Tis good; though music oft hath such a charm
The infant of your care; beseeching you
Before herself, almost at fainting under
Find little.
With an untitled tyrant bloody-scepter'd,
Fresher than e'er it was; and held for certain
And bad'st me bury love.
[Advancing]
The varying shore o' the world. O Antony,
perpetual triumph, an everlasting bonfire-light!
Rehearse that once more.
To ARIEL
Was he not born of woman? The spirits that know
Why, 'twas a commandment to command the captain and
break my shins against it.
And temper clay with blood of Englishmen:
The enemy, marching along by them,
As not a soldier of this season's stamp
Therefore to make his entrance more sweet,
Was by the rude hands of that Welshman taken,
Had not concluded all. He wakes; speak to him.
I will tell her, sir, that you do protest; which, as
The air hath got into my deadly wounds,
Till storms be past of civil enmity.
These words of yours draw life-blood from my heart:
Forgiveness, horse! why do I rail on thee,
A strong faith to conceal it.
Exit
Madam, I have been bold to trouble you;
O unbid spite! is sportful Edward come?
Lechery! I defy lechery. There's one at the gate.
My honour'd lady,
Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
If the cat will after kind,
Re-enter KING LEAR with GLOUCESTER
I render, for my brethren's obsequies;
What you profess.
Enter'd my house. Antonio, you are welcome;
And I'll be placed, so please you, in the ear
His ready sense; then straight his doubled spirit
She will attend it better in thy youth
honest Antonio,--O that I had a title good enough
Now for the rebels which stand out in Ireland,
there's a hole made in your best coat, Master Ford.
my house; thither they send one another: I'll
A dateless bargain to engrossing death!
smooth-tongue, Spanish-pouch,--
What, a feast, a feast?
That we must stand and play the murderer in?
That's somewhat madly spoken.
That therefore I have forged, or am not able
That neither singly can be manifested,
Away, slight man!
Ay, that he razed.
In reverend Cerimon there well appears
Flatter my sorrows with report of it;
Tied it by letters-patents: now, who'll take it?
Leaving thy trunk for crows to feed upon.
The thieves are all scatter'd and possess'd with fear
Speaks to atone you.
Her children not her husband's!
nightingale. Hopdance cries in Tom's belly for two
And I'll grow friend with danger. Wear this sleeve.
I want more uncles here to welcome me.
Enter QUEEN MARGARET and SOMERSET
Where then, alas, may I complain myself?
As my trust was; which had indeed no limit,
And therefore 'tis called a sensible tale: and this
Exeunt
By breaking through the foul and ugly mists
Cries out, I was possess'd. Then all together
Come, where is this young gallant that is so
Have follow'd both my fortunes faithfully:
And what these sorrows could not thence exhale,
Enter IMOGEN
Why at this time the doors are made against you.
Upon the part o' the people, in whose power
That ever this fellow should have fewer words than a
Measures my husband's sorrow by his woe:
Then, forester, my friend, where is the bush
I have loved thee,--
Importing health and graveness. Two months since,
Hath he not lost much wealth by wreck of sea?
To tell you, fair beholders, that our play
yet to be what I would not shall not make me tame:
And I can teach thee, coz, to shame the devil
should marry twenty husbands. If he would despise me
shall we not? what sayest thou, my fair
That other men begin.
Should notwithstanding join our lights together
Nay, I have done.
Most honour'd Timon,
Our great self and our credit, to esteem
A little riper and more lusty red
Be pleased to tell us--
Then, for his mind, be Edward England's king:
But yet, before we go, let's not forget
When did she send thee?
Ere so prevail'd with me: it will in time
Of many weary miles you have o'ergone,
Most rare.
Hack'd one another in the sides of Caesar:
That's a question: how shall we try it?
In our own proper entrails.
Richard shall live to make the Earl of Warwick
Where a malignant and a turban'd Turk
Husband, let's follow, to see the end of this ado.
First, never to unfold to any one
Death, that dark spirit, in 's nervy arm doth lie;
As, an't please heaven, he shall not--they
Till his lost child be found? which that it shall,
My power? Alas, I doubt--
Why, sir, I pray, are not the streets as free
So it should seem by that I have to say.
This is the way to kindle, not to quench.
Proculeius,
Here let us rest, if this rebellious earth
Come, bitter conduct, come, unsavoury guide!
What traitor hears me, and says not amen?
not proved worthy a blackberry: they set me up, in
Look forward on the journey you shall go.
That you can let this go? Are you so gospell'd
For every cloud engenders not a storm.
Like a hell-broth boil and bubble.
How I had moved them. Bring me to Octavius.
O woe! thy canopy is dust and stones;--
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, MARK ANTONY, LEPIDUS, and OCTAVIA
No more will I their babes: tears virginal
Be patient, gentle queen, and I will stay.
weighed, that curiosity in neither can make choice
For if he be not one that truly loves you,
eyes; there was speech in their dumbness, language
In faith, I gave it to the judge's clerk:
And now, so you will let me quiet go,
You must needs learn, lord, to amend this fault:
[Within]	Lord Hamlet,--
Confine yourself but in a patient list.
Take notice, lords, he has a loyal breast,
In storm perpetual, could not move the gods
death: you know the course is common. If any thing
To melt in showers: thy grandsire loved thee well:
Must feel war's blow, who spares not innocence:
He'll be as full of quarrel and offence
names, your ages, of what having, breeding, and any
Which sorrow is always towards ourselves, not heaven,
Than I have here proclaim'd thee.
O, be thou Dian, and let her be Kate;
Live, and love thy misery.
Proceed.
For making him egregiously an ass
And those musicians that shall play to you
Why, boy, how is it?
Only reserved their factor, to buy souls
Nay, an I tell you that, Ill ne'er look you i' the
Gives us free scope, only doth backward pull
His beard was grizzled--no?
true-bred cowards as ever turned back; and for the
Poor Clifford! how I scorn his worthless threats!
Sir boy, I'll whip you from your foining fence;
Grieve not that I am fallen to this for you;
Which he was lord of; or whether nature,
It should not be, by the persuasion of his new feasting.
I am, as thy general is.
Shallow, and another gentleman, from Frogmore, over
I left him almost speechless; and broke out
Than in my thought it lies.
What is your will?
So let it be with Caesar. The noble Brutus
Let me entreat you.
Do comfort and not burn. 'Tis not in thee
And I am going to deliver them.
Let AEsop fable in a winter's night;
Having a son and friends; since Julius Caesar,
What say you?
My lord protector, so it please your grace,
I will not hurt him.
Please your honours,
take my death, I never meant him any ill, nor the
Comes sneaking and so sucks her princely eggs,
First, an it like you, the house is a respected
Perplex'd in the extreme; of one whose hand,
How dearly they do't! 'Tis her breathing that
Those that betray them do no treachery.
What a plague mean ye to colt me thus?
A way to make us better friends, more known.
Still exaction!
Lately attendant on the Duke of Norfolk.
That e'er was heard or read!
Who does it, then? His madness: if't be so,
company to-night?
Whom for this time we pardon. We enjoin thee,
Exit MISTRESS QUICKLY
That ever hath but clipp'd his body, is dearer
If a crow help us in, sirrah, we'll pluck a crow together.
Then, kill, kill, kill, kill, kill, kill!
Was his great ancestor.
his discretion.
What is he for a fool that betroths himself to
Obey you, love you, and most honour you.
In troth, there's wondrous things spoke of him.
Taurus!
Doth hurry from the fatal cannon's womb.
Exeunt
He can come no other way but by this hedge-corner.
Sit down: thou art no flatterer:
Nor well, unless in mind: his letter there
But that they left me 'midst my enemies.
And much too little of that good I saw
What do you think me?
Come then, away; let's ha' no more ado.
A prayer upon her grave. I'll not seek far--
And put a barren sceptre in my gripe,
And takes him by the beard; kisses the gashes
And to his image, which methought did promise
How you delight, my lords, I know not, I;
a beard of the general's cut and a horrid suit of
Ay, and their colours, often borne in France,
Sir, but I do; or else I would be hence.
Confirm'd conspiracy with fearful France;
starveling. Tut! there are other Trojans that thou
Forslow no longer, make we hence amain.
I have a motion much imports your good;
That we should dress us fairly for our end.
We have been guided by thee hitherto,
Than all the complete armour that thou wear'st!
And craves to kiss your hand and take his leave.
Great Apollo
horns together, like any deer i' the herd.
look to his bond.
Though I am satisfied and need no more
This bloody man, the care on't. I hope I dream;
And, now it is half-conquer'd, must I back
To whom I give my benison,
hear from you.
I will put it to them: but vir sapit qui pauca
Duty and zeal to your unmatched mind,
His health is well sir.
And snatch them straight away? We here below
womanhood and the witness of a good conscience,
Provost, how came it Claudio was beheaded
They fell upon me, bound me, bore me thence
Madam, I had.
me, so; 'tis a point of friendship.
We will be satisfied; let us be satisfied.
ACT IV
Hark! a retire upon our Grecian part.
Deep shame had struck me dumb, made me break off,
I fly, Biondello: but they may chance to need thee
Fair Katharine, and most fair,
Most fair return of greetings and desires.
Marry, our play is, The most lamentable comedy, and
To stain the temper of my knightly sword.
Do not, porpentine, do not: my fingers itch.
What may befall him, to his harm and ours:
ACT III
You are for dreams and slumbers, brother priest;
despair, if they were not cherished by our virtues.
How now! is he dead already? or is it fear
Exeunt
She that, so young, could give out such a seeming,
That I despise thee for thy wrongful suit,
The state and inclination of the day:
Being that I flow in grief,
Take no unkindness of his hasty words:
[Aside]  'Tis better playing with a lion's whelp
Hark ye, lords; ye see I have given her physic,
To do offence and scath in Christendom.
Farewell at once, for once, for all, and ever.
Yea, and a case to put it into. But speak you this
I should have found in some place of my soul
protest, mine never shall. I warrant he hath a
ALL SERVING-MEN	Here, here, sir; here, sir.
DON
Did Julius Caesar build that place, my lord?
That he hath a neighbourly charity in him, for he
Which draught to me were cordial.
dregs of the storm be past.
for argument, unless the poet and the player went to
And though man's face be fearful to their eyes,
Knocking within. Enter a Porter
I might have said 'No part of it is mine;
What are you there? come in, and give some help.
And leave the world no copy.
in the oppression of aged tyranny; who sways, not
Achilles is a fool to be commanded of Agamemnon;
You sad Andronici, have done with woes:
him with a talent.
Is it the king?
Flourish. SATURNINUS courts TAMORA in dumb show
Alas, I had rather be set quick i' the earth
that have been more kindly beholding to you than
You came not of one mother then, it seems.
Your vessels and your spells provide,
Like a bright exhalation m the evening,
An if an angel should have come to me
That gave thee life, when well he might have
The accent of his tongue affecteth him.
They knock
That have consented unto Henry's death!
that I think you are in love: nay, by'r lady, I am
You are married?
And falsehood falsehood cures, as fire cools fire
What became of his bark and his followers?
Saint Francis be my speed! how oft to-night
him heart-whole.
Yet herein will I imitate the sun,
Than amply to imbar their crooked titles
The rod, and bird of peace, and all such emblems
Yea and the best person too; and he is a very
Could not, with all their quantity of love,
A ripe age. Is thy name William?
SCENE VI. Windsor castle.
And if his name be George, I'll call him Peter;
Stabbing MUTIUS
By that same god, what god soe'er it be,
A creature unprepared, unmeet for death;
Her eyelids, cases to those heavenly jewels
for one fair French maid that stands in my way.
Your differences shall all rest under gage
Than you, unless you were a scholar, sir.
To come in to the cry without more help.
That overtopp'd them all. Betray'd I am:
I'll try you on the shore.
Re-enter MARIA
This fortification, gentlemen, shall we see't?
He cares not; he'll obey conditions.
My unblown flowers, new-appearing sweets!
Here is a hand to hold a sceptre up
But, my good lord, your grace's word shall serve,
France friend with England, what becomes of me?
And therefore is she born to make black fair.
To lock up honesty and honour from
A gift that heaven gives for him, which buys
They must either,
By Jupiter, I swear, no.
Blush for pure shame to counterfeit our roses,
To her unguarded nest the weasel Scot
But since you have made the days and nights as one,
To-morrow to my bloody creditor.
Of her or you, having proceeded but
Twice fifteen thousand hearts of England's breed,--
When he doth bid good morrow with such a spirit.
Send him but hither, and I'll fashion him.
I must be brief, lest resolution drop
SCENE IV. Rome. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's house.
And see our pleasure herein executed.
He will be here, and yet he is not here:
Will presently appear;
turtles from jays.
Go to, woman!
Who should deny it? Come, young one, I like the
That he may bless this bay with his tall ship,
In many singularities; but we saw not
ne'er the wiser.
To him the other two shall minister;
You'ld venture an emballing: I myself
his name, and tell them plainly he is Snug the joiner.
Your eld'st acquaintance cannot be three hours:
Spoke like an officer; ha' to thee, lad!
And duty bids defend; the other again
Let him be made a coverture for the wars!
Prithee, see there! behold! look! lo!
Then walk we forth, even to the market-place,
merchandise do sinfully miscarry upon the sea, the
To follow with allegiance a fall'n lord
Since thou wert king--as who is king but thou?--
their adversaries. Have you an army ready, say you?
Made me to quit the house.
They are in readiness.
If I fly, Marcius,
Dies not alone; but, like a gulf, doth draw
endless liar, an hourly promise-breaker, the owner
Yea, as sure as I have a thought or a soul.
If thou dost break her virgin-knot before
It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you:
Than when it was a-doing.
Hath been between this lady and this lord.
That we shall see and know our friends in heaven:
Take her by the hand,
And ask him what's the reason of these arms.
on thee, rather than have these off.
Enter SILVIUS
That so her torture may be shortened.
Every wise man's son doth know.
By treason, falsehood and by treachery,
You are come to see my daughter Anne?
Once Arviragus, in as like a figure,
Aside
That fled the snares of watchful tyranny;
Of the defendant; and thou hast incurr'd
the peace: you have showed yourself a wise
Your care is gain of care, by new care won:
I know it well. What must I call her?
Should they not,
Forspent with toil, as runners with a race,
Have seal'd thy full desire.
With Clifford and the haught Northumberland,
from all parts of the world to just and tourney for her love.
Wilt thou undo the worth thou art unpaid for,
to prison was worth five thousand of you all.
Are you now going to dispatch this deed?
O, the difference of man and man!
Will you follow, gentlemen? I beseech you, follow;
Pushes OSWALD out
Whenever Buckingham doth turn his hate
Then, noble auditory, be it known to you,
Why, I think so: I am not such an ass but I can
Alas, alas!
A cry within 'A sail, a sail, a sail!'
And that will quickly dry thy melting tears.
This may prove worse than hanging.
My wife is shrewish when I keep not hours:
Does pity, as constrained blemishes,
Think, my lord!
And then to crave a league of amity;
Thou fell'st into my fury, for one death
And all the ceremony of this compact
More like an empress than Duke Humphrey's wife:
Ay, my lord;
I' faith, sweet love, I was coming to your house.
if not, thou art an Hebrew, a Jew, and not worth the
Prisoner! to whom?
Yet do our hearts wear Timon's livery;
That's off, that's off;
Till I have learned thy language; for thy tongue
The king is merciful, if you revolt.
Why, 'tis an office of discovery, love;
Hear me speak:
He is.
But unto thee, Alencon, and the rest;
And every measure fail me.
You have mistook, my lady,
The morning wears, 'tis time we were at church.
This above all: to thine ownself be true,
The queen desires you to use some gentle
Give us kind keepers, heavens! What were these?
this change of thoughts,
Your majesty shall mock at me; I cannot speak your England.
Our youth got me to play the woman's part,
Than is thy strange apparent cruelty;
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as before
And wish thee to a shrewd ill-favour'd wife?
To give your censures in this weighty business?
Then shall we find to-morrow they have only stomachs
Ay, the grinding; but you must tarry
Their softest touch as smart as lizards' sting!
Who, if it had conceit, would die, as I
DON
That wear upon your virgin branches yet
Why, hark ye, hark ye! and are you such fools
And say 'Ah, ha! you're caught.'
How could he see to do them? having made one,
Humbly to kiss your hand, and with my tongue
With any size of words.
We came aboard.
the attempt I vow.
He had, my lord: and when he ran in here,
Mistake me not; I speak but as I find.
And all the rest revolted faction traitors?
I can speak English, lord, as well as you;
And will you?
Even in his throat--unless it be the king--
Didst thou not say he comes?
And thence from Athens turn away our eyes,
I'll find Demetrius and revenge this spite.
Like empty purses pick'd; and his poor self,
together. Villanous thoughts, Roderigo! when these
backs, what shall poor men do? For me, I am here a
But seeming so, for my peculiar end:
I tell you what, Captain Gower; I do perceive he is
Made all of false-faced soothing!
But know I think and think I know most sure
Gloucester's men rush at the Tower Gates, and WOODVILE the Lieutenant speaks within
An he should, it were an alms to hang him. She's an
Can you not read it? Is it not fair writ?
Pardon, good Mercutio, my business was great; and in
Then, for the third part of a minute, hence;
Let me be no assistant for a state,
But we our kingdom's safety must so tender,
And rather choose to hide them in a net
Henceforth I charge you, as you love our favour,
And when I told the empress of this sport,
Singing
Is much more general than these lines import.
More tedious than the dial eight score times?
Nor how to study for the people's welfare,
By heaven, you do me wrong.
you think is his name?
Which still we thank as love. Herein I teach you
But love, fair looks and true obedience;
Exit BANQUO
I am for France.
Where did I leave?
'tis for the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest.
'Twas men I lack'd and you will give them me:
now; if it be not now, yet it will come: the
Yet needful too; for youth no less becomes
I do; and surely
How goes the night, boy?
That all the court may echo with the noise.
we'll put you i' the fills. Why do you not speak to
Bid me farewell, and smile. I pray you, come.
Re-enter TITUS, with LAVINIA; he bearing a knife, and she a basin
do't: I hold it the more knavery to conceal it;
But for our trusty brother-in-law and the abbot,
The worthiest men have done't?
Ay, that I do; as well as I love any woman in
The wounded chance of Antony, though my reason
A dream itself is but a shadow.
Ay, he does well enough if he be disposed, and so do
An honest one, I warrant; who deserved
And buried, gentle Tyrrel?
becomes him better than any man in all Phrygia.
Moon and stars!
Exit
A name that in my thoughts becomes me best,
They are loves I bear to you.
great presage of cruelty.
That it prefers itself and leaves unquestion'd
And so will I.
Are less than horrible imaginings:
Some cogging, cozening slave, to get some office,
Had still kept loyal to possession
The allusion holds in the exchange.
Safer than trust too far:
Sound, sound alarum! we will rush on them.
Most dearly welcome to the Greeks, sweet lady.
To fleer and scorn at our solemnity?
And strokes death to her.
Charles, I will play no more tonight;
Madam, I am most apt to embrace your offer.
tying his new shoes with old riband? and yet thou
Belonging to his honour; and this man
I am no traitor.
What, what? first praise me and again say no?
Proclaim it, provost, round about the city.
The routed fly: so thy grand captain Antony
Bait the hook well; this fish will bite.
How if it be false, son?
In what I further shall intend to do,
Richard Plantagenet, my friend, is he come?
Enter PRIAM, HECTOR, TROILUS, PARIS, and HELENUS
Thorough flood, thorough fire,
Shall Rome stand under one man's awe? What, Rome?
Good sir, say whether you'll answer me or no:
Away, and let me die.
How appears the fight?
Your reproof is something too round: I should be
Cupid all arm'd: a certain aim he took
No; though thou call'st thyself a hotter name
And heard a mermaid on a dolphin's back
SCENE VI. Fields near Dover.
He shall submit, or I will never yield.
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, MECAENAS, and AGRIPPA
There I couch when owls do cry.
Looks with such ferret and such fiery eyes
would think scolding would do little good upon him:
In mere oppugnancy: the bounded waters
obey'd him?
All's done, all's won; here breathless lies the king.
No, in good sooth: the fire is dead with grief,
beef: ne'er ask me what raiment I'll wear; for I
They ravish'd her, and cut away her tongue;
Sin, death, and hell have set their marks on him,
Return you to my sister.
Thou, thou, Lysander, thou hast given her rhymes,
Consider this: he has been bred i' the wars
The blood of English shall manure the ground,
Cannot amend me; society is no comfort
And cut your trusters' throats! bound servants, steal!
Which they distil now in the curbed time,
Into a madman's rags; to assume a semblance
That stands upon the rolling restless stone--
Dost thou hear me, Hal?
Thou canst not speak of that thou dost not feel:
In Jove's own book, like an unnatural dam
He's fat, and scant of breath.
That bows unto the grave with mickle age.
Wherein thou art less happy being fear'd
I will not kiss thee; then the rot returns
Each drop she falls would prove a crocodile.
The story then goes false, you threw it him
three, though they would serve me, could not be man
Will take the crown. The sum of this,
be hanged at home: 'tis dangerous. Well, I perceive
That could conceive a gross and foolish sire
What his breast forges, that his tongue must vent;
Now does he feel
His soul is so enfetter'd to her love,
When expect you them?
Exeunt GLOUCESTER and EDMUND
noble and true-hearted Kent banished! his
I'll have her; but I will not keep her long.
I mean, thy general.
You tell us the manner of the wrestling.
Our letters are prepared.
Faith, we hear fearful news.
Do glorify the banks that bound them in;
The most convenient place that I can think of
ACT V
the meaning:
Exeunt all but EDGAR
Lucilius' Servant	Ay, but this answer will not serve.
did that I did not this seven year before, I blushed
Octavius, Antony, and Lepidus,
Cannot my body nor blood-sacrifice
And I must freely have the half of anything
In my opinion, ought to be prevented.
March on, march on, since we are up in arms;
Enter QUINCE, FLUTE, SNOUT, and STARVELING
[Aside to RODERIGO]  Away, I say; go out, and cry a mutiny.
Come to the king and tell him what miracle.
O Regan, wilt thou take her by the hand?
This expedition was by York and Talbot
Under the allowance of your great aspect,
Hark! I hear horses.
O, pray, let's see't: for the Lord Timon, sir?
Stand in his face to contradict his claim.
Leap'd from his eyes: so looks the chafed lion
That were unworthy to behold the same?
To be forestalled ere we come to fall,
Upon the crown o' the cliff, what thing was that
I fear we shall out-sleep the coming morn
What dost thou strike at, Marcus, with thy knife?
I have writ me here a letter to her: and here
Hear you, sir?
Grave tribunes, once more I entreat of you,--
Doth by the idle comments that it makes
Stain my man's cheeks! No, you unnatural hags,
Fortune, good night: smile once more: turn thy wheel!
Why, rude companion, whatsoe'er thou be,
matter: there's her cousin, an she were not
Sweet ladies, will it please you sit? Sir Harry,
What thou sayest?
If that you were the good Sir Rowland's son,
clog at his heels: if I thought it were a piece of
Or let a rebel lead you to your deaths?
Damn'd as thou art, thou hast enchanted her;
Our wedding cheer to a sad burial feast,
And here remain with your uncertainty!
Looks it not like the king?  mark it, Horatio.
Ruthful to hear, yet piteously perform'd:
of remorse in me.
And even there, methinks, an angel spake:
Let it come, i' faith, and I'll pledge you all; and
Before you visit him, to make inquire
Earl of Northumberland, he slew thy father.
Into his ears; I may say, thrusting it;
three umpires in this matter, as I understand; that
When I did make thee free, sworest thou not then
They seize and blindfold him
Enter, in conquest, with drum and colours, EDMUND,  KING LEAR and CORDELIA, prisoners; Captain, Soldiers,  and c
The plate, corn, revenues and moveables,
Piercing our Romans: then, valiant Titus, take
The faith they have in tennis, and tall stockings,
Say now, whose suit is he arrested at?
What, what?
If it please the gods to defend you by men, then men
Dispatch, I say, and find the forester.
till they've swallowed the whole parish, church,
Nor cease his flow of riot: takes no account
There's not a piece of feather in our host--
reputation, who is thus like to be cozened with the
duke, I say to thee again, would eat mutton on
weapons in your hand, and kill me a red-hipped
Containing her affection unto Benedick.
What honey is expected? Degree being vizarded,
Our substitutes at home shall have blank charters;
You should ask me what time o' day: there's no clock
He would say untruths; and be ever double
Most sure she was.
Quickly: and certainly she did you wrong; for you
Now crouches fore the mouse's hole;
Now go with me and with this holy man
If you submit you to the people's voices,
She was often cited by them, but appear'd not:
I'll do thee service for so good a gift.
Gentleman,
Is it not yours?
Some consequence yet hanging in the stars
Do climate here! You have a holy father,
Upward of twenty years, and have been blest
I'll watch him tame and talk him out of patience;
Prithee, do, Jack.
Perchance you will not bear them patiently.
Was not Count John here at supper?
But, since it serves my purpose, I will venture
Would with his daughter speak, commands her service:
Of Antony's death.
Thy resolved patient, on thee still rely.
I care not, I, knew she and all the world:
wife was brought to bed of twenty money-bags at a
By heaven, it shall not go!
And so, proud-hearted Warwick, I defy thee,
Catesby!
A worthy fellow, and hath ta'en much pain
Enter LUCIUS
'Tis the cardinal;
I did some service; of such note indeed,
A mother only mock'd with two sweet babes;
Tut, I have done a thousand dreadful things
have many pocky corses now-a-days, that will scarce
I lie; for they pray continually to their saint, the
For this fool gudgeon, this opinion.
The good-years shall devour them, flesh and fell,
As man and wife, being two, are one in love,
DON
Without addition or diminishing,
Why, thou unreverend and unhallow'd friar,
To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you;
do you know of it?
Again with Rome's mechanics: tell me not
SCENE I. Before PROSPERO'S cell.
Of roaring terrors; for the effect of judgment
Go, go, be gone, to save your ship from wreck,
O worthy prince, dishonour not your eye
Servant!
I shall do't.
And make a monster of you.
Thy pains, Fitzwater, shall not be forgot;
To speak my mind, and I will through and through
The loss you have is but a son being king,
And tire the hearer with a book of words.
She never saw it.
To give their bed joy and prosperity.
Count Claudio?
Varro's Servant	What is a whoremaster, fool?
You may do, then, in time. Fare you well, sir.
I told your majesty as much before:
A most miraculous work in this good king;
To-morrow, an it please your majesty
You writ to the pope against the king: your goodness,
In our own filth drop our clear judgments; make us
Which, being cruel to the world, concluded
I offer'd to awaken his regard
DON
Ay, you have been a mouse-hunt in your time;
This is the tenor of the emperor's writ:
Villain, thou mightst have been an emperor:
How now, sweet Frank! why art thou melancholy?
Or some of you shall smoke for it in Rome.
Methinks thy voice is alter'd; and thou speak'st
are to be smiled at, their offences being so
Into an auger's bore.
Strikes him
believe, as cold a night as 'tis, he could wish
Now it's twenty-seven: every gash was an enemy's grave.
They say, in care of your most royal person,
For, if she be not honest, chaste, and true,
And though it be allow'd in meaner parties--
O Cressida! but that the busy day,
'Tis of some wreck.
Condemn the fault and not the actor of it?
worth the eating.
Exit an attendant
to thank me.' that's as much as to say, Any pains
How that the guilty kindred of the queen
Enter FLUELLEN
You are too hot.
Against the non-performance, 'twas a fear
You must not, sir, mistake my niece. There is a
To Richmond, in those parts beyond the sea
Hautboys and torches. Enter DUNCAN, MALCOLM,  DONALBAIN, BANQUO, LENNOX, MACDUFF, ROSS, ANGUS, and Attendants
Thou sun, that comfort'st, burn! Speak, and
But when we saw our sunshine made thy spring,
The like do you: so shall we pass along
And birth, that thou shouldst stand while Lewis doth sit.
this huge hill of flesh,--
Master Fenton, talk not to me; my mind is heavy: I
Quick, quick! we'll come dress you straight: put
But, madam, where is Warwick then become?
Unknown to the beginning.
Madam, I will.
She is damned for it.
More dregs than water, if my fears have eyes.
I'll lean upon one crutch and fight with t'other,
How soon this mightiness meets misery:
winds. The heavens continue their loves!
this business.
There let him sink, and be the seas on him!
Old wither'd plants, to wail it with their age.
An if I have not, sir, I hope you have;
Triumphant death, smear'd with captivity,
A creature, that did bear the shape of man,
You, brother mine, that entertain'd ambition,
Pedant looks out of the window
He that a fool doth very wisely hit
I find an apt remission in myself;
But out upon this half-faced fellowship!
You either fear his humour or my negligence, that
Qu'ai-j'oublie! dere is some simples in my closet,
Besides, I have some business in the town.
When we were happy we had other names.
He wrung Bassanio's hand; and so they parted.
If you have any pity, grace, or manners,
Enter OCTAVIA with her train
Of my queen's travails!
you might slip away ere he came. But what make you here?
I'll make my heaven in a lady's lap,
thee the bucklers.
They're here with me already, whispering, rounding
nothing, let him call me rogue for being so far
board a dozen or fourteen gentlewomen that live
Your son's my father's friend; he takes his part.
brought it?
Where and what time your majesty shall please.
Plays in the right hand, thus: but tell him,
With all my heart. This fellow I remember,
And you must cut this flesh from off his breast:
the place for your labour.
By watching, weeping, tendance, kissing, to
And 'twixt his finger and his thumb he held
And come again to me; who, on my life,
Kisses her
Than Cressid borne from Troy.
Walter,--
The intertissued robe of gold and pearl,
Thy maiden sword.
He hugg'd me in his arms, and swore, with sobs,
Were born to see so sad an hour as this;
My penance is to call Lucetta back
You have been a scourge to her enemies, you have
So much against the mettle of your sex,
why the more is for your honesty.
I never knew man hold vile stuff so dear.
And triumph, Henry, in thy day of doom.
Qualtitie calmie custure me! Art thou a gentleman?
And hold-fast is the only dog, my duck:
life! I want work.' 'O my sweet Harry,' says she,
Yea, or the drone of a Lincolnshire bagpipe.
And not obedient to his honest will,
Is of a constant, loving, noble nature,
I can hardly believe that, since you know not what
There is a remedy, approved, set down,
Re-enter Iago
That could give more, but that her hand lacks means.
Do something mingle with our younger brown, yet ha' we
No, no, no such matter; you are wide: come, your
And leave you to attend him: some dear cause
I have forsworn.
Methought their souls, whose bodies Richard murder'd,
Then die a calf, before your horns do grow.
Out, out, Lucetta! that would be ill-favour'd.
And all indign and base adversities
Marry, God forfend!
Do you neglect them?
But sun it is not, when you say it is not;
She shall not long continue love to him.
Darraign your battle, for they are at hand.
Where we may apprehend her and the Moor?
The wealthy curled darlings of our nation,
Enter ERPINGHAM
More needs she the divine than the physician.
I shall have none but Mordake Earl of Fife.
Lead us from hence, where we may leisurely
And yet a dispensation may be had.
So please you.
is a gallant child; one that indeed physics the
Carries beyond belief.
Because my name is George.
By which he should revive: and even so
Thou'rt an emperor, Caesar, Keisar, and Pheezar. I
Madam, I'll sing.
having no eyes, look you, wept herself blind at my
And plague injustice with the pains of hell.
And pitch our evils there? O, fie, fie, fie!
Why, if thou never wast at court, thou never sawest
And parted thus you and your argument.
Whether you will or no.
Want wit in all one word to understand.
Advancing
I am more proud to be Sir Rowland's son,
When shall you see me write a thing in rhyme?
the palsied intercession of such a decayed dotant as
Sola, sola! wo ha, ho! sola, sola!
As Hector, I assure you: and in the managing of
Give me my robe, for I will go.
Witness the world, that I create thee here
Faints
Well, on to the market-place.
A page so kind, so duteous, diligent,
As may compact it more. Get you gone;
What do I fear?  myself?  there's none else by:
Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven;
the next week.
That he is loved of me: I follow him not
That, being mad herself, she's madly mated.
[Aside]  Some treason, masters: yet stand close.
Enter two Gentlemen, meeting
In honest plainness thou hast heard me say
If it be that--
Who may I rather challenge for unkindness
'Deliver Helen, and all damage else--
Only reserved, you claim no interest
I sometime lay here in Corioli
Upon your heads--is nothing but heart-sorrow
any, speak; for him have I offended. Who is here so
Therefore I urge thy oath; for that I know
Ay, but mildly.
these are in the moon. But, silence! here comes Thisbe.
unlooked for, and there's an end.
Than a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet,
truth enough alive to make societies secure; but
Then list to me:
Nay, by my faith, I think you are more beholding to
Where had you this pretty weather-cock?
indeed, cannot abide 'em; they are very ill-favored
with better music.
And I:
Clean from my hand? No, this my hand will rather
Whom Henry, our late sovereign, ne'er could brook?
And does he think so backwardly of me now,
Themselves when they be felt.
Exit Attendant
But kill'd itself much sooner.
In her imagined person.
But gives all gaze and bent of amorous view
Hopeless to find, yet loath to leave unsought
We grieve at chances here. Away!
Consent, and for thy honour give consent,
Having been three months married to her, sitting in
Cicero is dead,
Be suffer'd to come near him.
very nothing, and beyond the imagination of his
All dead.
Thou wouldst have poison'd good Camillo's honour,
That this fell fault of my accursed sons,
too, and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure?
Peace, son! and show some reason, Buckingham,
And mighty states characterless are grated
By slaves that take their humours for a warrant
I like thy wit well, in good faith: the gallows
What, none?
Exit
My oil-dried lamp and time-bewasted light
Patricians, draw your swords: and sheathe them not
Old sir, I know
Sirs, stop his mouth, and let him speak no more.
your own inclining? Is it a free visitation? Come,
were dead at my foot, and the jewels in her ear!
Because this is in traffic of a king.
It shall not die.
Make the gruel thick and slab:
between that and my blood.
Lose not so noble a friend on vain suppose,
Trust me, he beat him most pitifully.
Sing willow, willow, willow;
How can this be?
There hangs a vaporous drop profound;
Exeunt
Does my deeds make the blacker!
The jealous o'erworn widow and herself,
This chaos, when degree is suffocate,
If the business be of any difficulty, and this
Which she entreated: our courteous Antony,
To wake and wage a danger profitless.
As he shall think by our true diligence
By holy Paul, they love his grace but lightly
Next, Caius Cassius, do I take your hand;
The badges of his grief and patience,
Nor once deject the courage of our minds,
Come on, you thick lipp'd slave, I'll bear you hence;
His nighted life: moreover, to descry
For thou, I fear, hast given me cause to curse,
Hence! I will follow.
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
Ay, Caesar; but not gone.
think I have wit enough to lie straight in my bed:
Than the queen's life? a gracious innocent soul,
In reckoning up the several devils' names
I'll be a candle-holder, and look on.
Of wide Arabia are as thoroughfares now
Will make or man or woman madly dote
Exeunt GRIFFITH and Messenger
That never saw 'em pace before, the spavin
Rest you, whiles I lament King Henry's corse.
Such as she is, in beauty, virtue, birth,
Thy wife, too! that's some wrong, indeed. What's
sentenced him. To make you understand this in a
False to thy gods, thy brother, and thy father;
Prove this a prosperous day, the three-nook'd world
Imagine howling: 'tis too horrible!
Let Marcus, Lucius, or thyself, old Titus,
ACT II
Dies in his own too much: that we would do
And will you, being a man of your breeding, be
That roars so loud, and thunders in the index?
ANTIPHOLUS
Spare your arithmetic: never count the turns;
You speak him far.
And not a man, for being simply man,
Cesario, you are like to be much advanced: he hath
Come on then, and remove him.
And we, I hope, sir, are no murderers.
What say the augurers?
Of an inestimable value, and his daughter with him,
I never heard the absent duke much detected for
That is, hot ice and wondrous strange snow.
Ram thou thy fruitful tidings in mine ears,
Help, masters!--Here's a goodly watch indeed!
With that we lack. I'll hold thee any wager,
Exeunt
Sweet aunt, be quiet; 'twas against her will.
To have you royally appointed as if
Be thou a prey unto the house of York,
wife; come, Mistress Page. I pray you, pardon me;
Exeunt
A footman, sweet sir, a footman.
To plead your cause: it shall be therefore bootless
A most poor man, made tame to fortune's blows;
To-day did dine together. So befall my soul
To the vulgar eye, that he bears all things fairly.
Of a snail?
She vaunted 'mongst her minions t'other day,
Or mangled shalt thou be by this my sword.
trumpet's sound; we shall to 't presently.
able to lead her a coranto.
starved. What, ostler! A plague on thee! hast thou
No! why?  When he that is my husband now
Draws out his table-book
They cut thy sister's tongue and ravish'd her
Peace, peace, and give experience tongue.
'Tis to be doubted, madam.
Be any further moved. What you have said
Being with his presence glutted, gorged and full.
Away! thou'rt a knave.
estate, 'twere not amiss to keep our door hatched.
farthings--remuneration.--'What's the price of this
Give me mine angle; we'll to the river: there,
your ear; I would have no words of it,--my master
Let me have such a bowl may hold my thanks,
And I should rob the deathsman of his fee,
I should not then ask Casca what had chanced.
Unheard; what then?
Now here a period of tumultuous broils.
Why, cousin, wert thou regent of the world,
Exit Lieutenant
Or the division of the twentieth part
know than comes from her demand out of the letter.
By being peevish? I tell thee what, Antonio--
Thou hast a sister by the mother's side,
Why, how now, my bawcock! how dost thou, chuck?
Angelo hath seen them both, and will discover the favour.
The powers above us. Could I rage and roar
What! can so young a thorn begin to prick?
When I was crown'd I was but nine months old.
Much danger do I undergo for thee.
Exit DESDEMONA
The name of help grew odious to repeat.
Yet art thou slain in him: thou dost consent
sworn brother, the people, to earn a dearer
The crows to peck the eagles.
Now let thy friendly hand
Before we enter his forbidden gates,
For joyful mother, one that wails the name;
To thrust his icy fingers in my maw,
Yet most suspected, as the time and place
As you from crimes would pardon'd be,
A bachelor, a handsome stripling too:
A most dear husband. Now, I do love her too;
Nor ask advice of any other thought
Exit EDGAR
This valley fits the purpose passing well.
My niece's chambermaid.
Had our prince,
So white, and such a traitor!
And by the honourable tomb he swears,
Nor must not then be yielded to in this.
But let that go.
your father.
'Tis not so dear, yet 'tis a life; you coin'd it:
Nay, that's certain:
Nay, task me to my word; approve me, lord.
Chanting faint hymns to the cold fruitless moon.
The hostess of the meeting: pray you, bid
I thought thy bride-bed to have deck'd, sweet maid,
I am a drunkard! Had I as many mouths as Hydra,
For they have pardons, being ask'd, as free
Let not my sister read it in your eye;
From thy report as thou from honour, and
Would you expect? you are strangely troublesome.
Forsake the court: to do't, or no, is certain
myself. I pray you, tell Benedick of it, and hear
Where stain'd nobility lies trodden on,
Enter OBERON and squeezes the flower on TITANIA's eyelids
We'll answer it;
How I might stop this tempest ere it came;
Charges she more than me?
With open outcry toward our monument.
Why, then, your ladyship must cut your hair.
Desires to be admitted to your presence.
My lord,
Without assistance.
Fetter strong madness in a silken thread,
Live in your country here in banishment,
his day. What need I be so forward with him that
With an auspicious and a dropping eye,
Blows in your face. I fear your disposition:
to do the prince my master good; which who knows how
Is left to govern. Bear you it in mind,
I will not do them wrong; I rather choose
To whom he sung, in rude harsh-sounding rhymes,
displeasure.
But freshly looks and over-bears attaint
At his distemperature.
Cometh Andronicus, bound with laurel boughs,
O my gentle cousin,
Humbling their deities to love, have taken
Ay, spare us not. Say we read lectures to you.
That must needs be sport alone;
For aye austerity and single life.
Marry, after they closed in earnest, they parted very
Submits her to thy might; and of thee craves
William of Windsor was the seventh and last.
Why, this is just
Confessor to him; with that devil-monk,
Enter KATHARINA
And all combined, save what thou must combine
Exeunt BENEDICK and LEONATO
Where's his examination?
How I am braved and must perforce endure it!
Here PROCULEIUS and two of the Guard ascend the  monument by a ladder placed against a window, and,  having descended, come behind CLEOPATRA. Some of the Guard unbar and open the gates
Let housewives make a skillet of my helm,
The second name of men, obeys his points
o' the town commended him for a true man.
Your griefs! for what? wrong not your prince you love.
And there it is in writing, fairly drawn.
And more such days as these to us befall!
Where is your master?
When at your hands did I deserve this scorn?
she grew round-wombed, and had, indeed, sir, a son
Boult, take her away; use her at thy pleasure:
For count of this, the count's a fool, I know it,
Enter SIR ANDREW
Romeo! O, pale! Who else? what, Paris too?
One word, good citizens.
Gives light in darkness, comfort in despair!
trim ones too: he is now as valiant as Hercules
master parson; who writes himself 'Armigero,' in any
Flourish. Exeunt all but KING OF FRANCE, GONERIL, REGAN, and CORDELIA
Sends me a paper to persuade me patience?
holy, cold, and still conversation.
Now took your brother's life; or, to redeem him,
but that our wits are so diversely coloured: and
And fix'd his eyes upon you?
drink in Illyria: he's a coward and a coystrill
Caesar's no merchant, to make prize with you
prince in the night, you may stay him.
With all true faith. So says my master Antony.
Here, mighty Theseus.
For we to-morrow hold divided councils,
Behold this maid: all corners else o' the earth
Ye're honest men: ye've heard that I have gold;
That only to stand high in your account,
have lost?
May you a better feast never behold,
Puts the wretch that lies in woe
Comfort forswear me! Unkindness may do much;
Come, we'll have him in a dark room and bound. My
O, rare for Antony!
I speak not as in absolute fear of you.
O, my old master! who hath bound him here?
I shall recount hereafter; for this present,
That Caesar looks so sad.
And grieve his spirit that dares not challenge it.
Until the heavens, envying earth's good hap,
stuffed tennis-balls.
Thou know'st 'tis common; all that lives must die,
Never mole, hare lip, nor scar,
'Twere good, yours did; for, sir, to tell you plain,
Off with my boots, you rogues! you villains, when?
how art thou fishified! Now is he for the numbers
And so, my lord protector, see them guarded
And, from the extremest upward of thy head
That I shall think it a most plenteous crop
maledictions against king and nobles; needless
Thou hast made me now a man! never, before
Upon the gad! Edmund, how now! what news?
Enter CORIN and TOUCHSTONE
To FERDINAND
to-night; for indeed he is not for your lordship's respect.
Suitors to her and rivals in my love,
O momentary grace of mortal men,
ANTIPHOLUS
Yes, heartily beseech you.
odds. But thou wouldst not think how ill all's here
Not wind? it shall, it must; you see it doth.
Acquaint my mother with my hate to her,
One is too poor, too weak for my revenge.
To-morrow; to-day; presently; you shall have the
The passage and whole carriage of this action
Play the maid's part, still answer nay, and take it.
Shout within
That did the like for Fleance: if thou didst it,
are rather point-device in your accoutrements as
speak to me: for I am Trinculo--be not afeard--thy
Such as I can, twice o'er, I'll weep and sigh;
I humbly do entreat your highness' pardon;
A law-breaker, a villain: yield thee, thief.
Your plaintain-leaf is excellent for that.
Is near the hate of those love not the king.
The Grecians' cause.
So perhaps did yours.
valour. Challenge me the count's youth to fight
You do not purpose to him; and as hardly
Yet I suppose him virtuous, know him noble,
They are gone but to meet the duke, villain: do not
in the wood; our vizards we will change after we
Of a diverted blood and bloody brother.
My breast can better brook thy dagger's point
I'll haste the writer and withal
ACT I
And by that music let us all embrace;
a votary; I have vowed to Jaquenetta to hold the
us; and is very likely to load our purposes with
I do entreat that we may sup together:
Thus did Mark Antony bid me fall down;
With twenty trenched gashes on his head;
How now! who's there?
Seven of my people, with an obedient start, make
Enter LEONTES, with ANTIGONUS, Lords and others
But by bad courses may be understood
Flourish. Alarums
In sap-consuming winter's drizzled snow,
Would not 'scape censure, nor the redresses sleep,
Therefore bring forth the soldiers of our prize;
the supportance of his vow; he protests he will not hurt you.
For yet I am not look'd on in the world.
Now I but chide; but I should use thee worse,
As fair as day.
Well,
Will they not, think you, hang themselves tonight?
They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way,
Thou wilt fall backward when thou hast more wit;
Where, how, how oft, how long ago, and when
What news, what news, in this our tottering state?
virtue out of our hearts by the head and shoulders
Hourly joys be still upon you!
False to my nature? Rather say I play
What heaven hath given him,--let some graver eye
By pardoning Rutland, my transgressing boy.
Till he did look on me: since it is so,
This is kind I offer.
Let go.
Although my seal be stamped in his face.
Is never free of. But, beseech your grace,
You must not be so quick.
Nor did he soil the fact with cowardice--
Never saw like thee. Let an old man embrace thee;
O, that men's ears should be
That's strange.
Perseus: he is pure air and fire; and the dull
every man to his business.
This was a merry message.
Then was the time for words: no going then;
My lord of Ely!
Most bloody, fiery, and most terrible.
That drew their swords with you. Did he not rather
Did not I dance with you in Brabant once?
I protest, in the sincerity of love and honest kindness.
Proceed.
So please you, this friar hath been with him, and
but of my shedding.
If you think so, then stay at home and go not.
Patron of virtue, Rome's best champion,
Teach sin the carriage of a holy saint;
Pour in sow's blood, that hath eaten
performer, I would have that drum or another, or
Of our most gracious mistress.
You more invest it! Ebbing men, indeed,
Join with the present sickness that I have;
You'll pay me the eight shillings I won of you at betting?
entrenched it: say to him, I live; and observe his
fall enraged him, or how 'twas, he did so set his
She cannot be so much without true judgment--
What comfort, man? how is't with aged Gaunt?
To call young Claudio to a reckoning for it.
The French have reinforced their scatter'd men:
And, to prevent the worst, Sir Michael, speed:
ANTIPHOLUS
That shall reverberate all as loud as thine;
you three will but minister such assistance as I
He's bravely taken here. He stole from France,
That he should, for a foreign purse, so sell
Aside
That Timon cares not. But if be sack fair Athens,
I'll give you gold enough.
That honourable day shall ne'er be seen.
Heaven would in little show.
Do chase the ebbing Neptune and do fly him
To see the general hunting in this forest?
Forget to pity him, lest thy pity prove
To laugh at gibing boys and stand the push
This babble shall not henceforth trouble me.
God keep you from them, and from such false friends!
After such bloody toil, we bid good night;
'Here I give to understand,
Our means secure us, and our mere defects
Of as great size. Ween you of better luck,
No natural exhalation in the sky,
and give it his son for an apple.
I think upon't, I think: I smell't: O villany!--
That paragon, thy daughter,--
What is the matter? How now, general!
Under these windows, white and azure laced
O, he sends you for a picture.
As my sweet Richard: yet again, methinks,
With his new bride and England's dear-bought queen,
And I beseech you, let not his report
Help! help, ho! help! O lady, speak again!
French knight that cowers i' the hams?
Things past redress are now with me past care.
bolting-hutch of beastliness, that swollen parcel
I see you do not mean to part with her,
Be it lawful that I invocate thy ghost,
Bernardo?
is not vain-glory for a man and his glass to confer
The name of Prosper: it did bass my trespass.
I had your heart before, this follows it.
And you the blacker devil!
I have not long to trouble thee. Good Griffith,
A ring in chase of you: so did I abuse
As when his god is pleased.
And say, what store of parting tears were shed?
Attend me, lords. The proud insulting queen,
My shames redoubled! for the time will come,
You say that Edward is your brother's son:
No, no, he's gone.
No, Valentine.
To call me to your senate, I'll deliver
Andronicus, I do not flatter thee,
tell you, and is almost mature for the violent
The worms were hallow'd that did breed the silk;
For what you seem to fear: so, the gods keep you,
Come, how wouldst thou praise me?
Go you, sir, to the senators--
Or bring him in obedience to your yoke.
We coursed him at the heels, and had a purpose
Sure, it is hers.
Marry, sir, 'tis an ill cook that cannot lick his
Are you full of them?
Thanks, madam; well.
it was mere foolery; I did not mark it. I saw Mark
If not, when you have stomachs.
Neither supreme, how soon confusion
Take your own way.
What now, my son! have I not ever said
Rising
prisoner the very debt of your calling. I have
O, sir!
ANTIPHOLUS
Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily.
First, mighty sovereign, let me know your mind,
Call them forth.
The naked truth of it is, I have no shirt; I go
In high-born words the worth of many a knight
Lysander riddles very prettily:
your gown;
I did her wrong--
Till he disbursed at Saint Colme's inch
A dire induction am I witness to,
SCENE III. A wood.
thou hast leisure, say thy prayers; when thou hast
That dignifies the renown of a bawd, no less than it
I ask your voices and your suffrages:
Come here for physic.
ANTIPHOLUS
Fear not, Baptista; we will content you, go to: but
Had slipp'd our claim until another age.
My gracious lord, that which I would discover
The king with mighty and quick-raised power
Your brother dies to-morrow; be content.
Re-enter MARIANA and ISABELLA
digested. You stayed well by 't in Egypt.
hinder not the honour of his design: let him fetch
'Tis double wrong, to truant with your bed
Confined to exhibition! All this done
Let your study
Our king is not like him in that: he never killed
And win them too: therefore let us devise
And spirits walk and ghosts break up their graves,
I am bid forth to supper, Jessica:
The herd hath more annoyance by the breeze
These are the city gates, the gates of Rouen,
Hides not his visage from our cottage but
And spit upon my Jewish gaberdine,
shall come over it; for, in most comely truth, thou
And the strong course of my authority
And, if we thrive, promise them such rewards
Balk'd in their own blood did Sir Walter see
Exit
The wide world's emperor, do I consecrate
were, too peregrinate, as I may call it.
Compare our faces and be judge yourself.
For briers and thorns at their apparel snatch;
Foretold should be his last, full of repentance,
Let me speak:
neither maid, widow, nor wife.
Against the thing I say. Answer to this:
Out of the powerful regions under earth,
Pursued my life.
man's heart.
thy fee is a thousand ducats.
Nay, I have ta'en you napping, gentle love,
How insolent of late he is become,
Bring in the banquet quickly; wine enough
And put thy fortune to the arbitrement
With what he would say, let him feel your sword,
For taking bribes here of the Sardians;
We, poising us in her defective scale,
To call me goddess, nymph, divine and rare,
Exeunt
And all of them that thus dishonour her.
The first, the Retort Courteous; the second, the
Which the brain makes of fumes: our very eyes
Come, come, dispatch; 'tis bootless to exclaim.
Of valiant Shirley, Stafford, Blunt, are in my arms:
That would with treason wound this fair land's peace!
This shall assure my constant loyalty,
Re-enter two other Citizens
Taste your legs, sir; put them to motion.
Was it well done of rash Virginius
such-a-one's horse, when he meant to beg it; might it not?
God-a-mercy! so should I be sure to be heart-burned.
And bow this feeble ruin to the earth:
Enters the tomb
Their tables were stored full, to glad the sight,
Thanks and good night to the Greeks' general.
And sear up my embracements from a next
Because you are not sad. Now, by two-headed Janus,
Did the sea toss upon our shore this chest:
Importeth thee to know, this bears.
Exeunt Ghost and HAMLET
There's no trust,
And so shall starve with feeding. Come, let's go:
A virgin and his servant, say to him.
Than your good words. But who comes here?
Their watches on unto mine eyes, the outward watch,
Hath broke their hearts. March, noble lord,
all this while? You a lover! An you serve me such
Enter TYBALT
As rootedly as I. Burn but his books.
For herein Fortune shows herself more kind
He bears him on the place's privilege,
This queen will live: nature awakes; a warmth
hath ta'en thy life by some indirect means or other;
Of sorrow or of joy?
And tell them that I will not come to-day:
For I will raise her statue in pure gold;
My good lord archbishop, I'm very sorry
Antony, thou wouldst say,--
Your son and daughter found this trespass worth
Confirm'd by mutual joinder of your hands,
Can you do it?
Who 'twas that so endured, with his strong arms
And you, sir. I have been with your father, and
Confine! I'll confine myself no finer than I am:
For she hath blessed and attractive eyes.
Of a night-brawler? give me answer to it.
teach her to know my meaning: for maids, well
As to a lover's bed. Come, then; and, Eros,
From that it is disposed: therefore it is meet
English; wilt thou have me?
well. Heaven prosper our sport! No man means evil
[Within]  Fathom and half, fathom and half! Poor Tom!
That Anne, my wife, is sick and like to die:
Who wanteth food, and will not say he wants it,
Come on, Nerissa; I have work in hand
My lord, I had forgot to tell your lordship,
The covering sky is nothing; Bohemia nothing;
discommend so much. I know, sir, I am no
O that there were some virtue in my tears,
But rather lose her to an African;
Still in this fashion, colour, ornament,
least keep your counsel.
And he that is so yoked by a fool,
Lo, I present your grace a traitor's head,
The gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a
Away with us to Athens; three and three,
That it was yours. Now, for conspiracy,
Since what I am to say must be but that
Exit
Nor ever will be ruled.
I am to break with thee of some affairs
Is good without a name. Vileness is so:
A city full; of tribunes, such as you,
No bourn 'twixt his and mine, yet were it true
If we should serve with horse and mares together,
As Socrates' Xanthippe, or a worse,
RICHARD
They sit and mark
Somewhither would she have thee go with her.
A man of such a feeble temper should
O, serve me well, and teach yourselves that duty!
you to suspend your indignation against my
With gold on lasting pillars: In one voyage
Huntsman, what say'st thou? wilt thou go along?
To thine own peace. If he be now return'd,
Sad-hearted men, much overgone with care,
I am alone the villain of the earth,
tongues of the French council; and they should
The unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,
They are all welcome.
Is it so, sir?
O dear father,
Than men their minds! 'tis true.
To ease ourselves of divers slanderous loads,
'Tis now near night.
out: wind me into him, I pray you: frame the
Cause they take vengeance of such kind of men.
Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent
O sweet-suggesting Love, if thou hast sinned,
I pray you, let us satisfy our eyes
Was that my father that went hence so fast?
His powerful mandate to you, 'Do this, or this;
accent was a plain knave; which for my part
For to deny each article with oath
Which I dispersed, they all have met again
patience; and, in roaring for a chamber-pot,
Such another proof will make me cry 'baa.'
Ay, come; quick.
me his countenance seems to take from me: he lets
Hear me without thine ears, and make reply
he will offer to say what methought I had. The eye
And let the angel whom thou still hast served
I have.
Ursula, bring my picture here.
No loving token to his majesty?
That swells with silence in the tortured soul;
It is silliness to live when to live is torment; and
Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
'	Then, howso'er thou speak'st, 'mong other things
How doth my dear morsel, thy mistress? Procures she
water on thy choler: go about the fields with me
To the fairness of my power.
Not in a grave,
With news the time's with labour, and throes forth,
I pray thee, let me feel thy cloak upon me.
Well, I know not
Must I do so? and must I ravel out
If it were so that our request did tend
your purses full of crowns; if you will not, tarry
Enter, as to the Parliament, HENRY BOLINGBROKE,  DUKE OF AUMERLE, NORTHUMBERLAND, HENRY PERCY, LORD  FITZWATER, DUKE OF SURREY, the BISHOP OF CARLISLE,  the Abbot Of Westminster, and another Lord, Herald, Officers, and BAGOT
And my poor fool is hang'd! No, no, no life!
The rampant bear chain'd to the ragged staff,
Henceforth be never number'd among men!
Exeunt
'Tis so; and that self chain about his neck
Shall not make poor my greatness, nor my power
By those Welshwomen done as may not be
As they had seen me with these hangman's hands.
Which can distinguish sound.
Thy grace shall have it.
I will marry you, if ever I marry woman, and I'll be
What then?
But youth in ladies' eyes that flourisheth.
God comfort him in this necessity!
SCENE I. A room in the Garter Inn.
Had borne the action of yourself, or else
Then let him be denay'd the regentship.
His father never was so true begot:
Ignomy in ransom and free pardon
Shall I obtain it?
Prithee, fair youth,
The idea of her life shall sweetly creep
I have a gammon of bacon and two razors of ginger,
With ruder terms, such as my wit affords
The sun, for sorrow, will not show his head:
And know their spring, their head, their
The jewel in my dower, I would not wish
Apprehend
Or shall they last, and we rejoice in them?
noble lords; you have restrained yourself within the
I learn'd in Worcester, as I rode along,
And make me put into contempt the suits
I would not change it.
And curbs himself even of his natural scope
A choking gall and a preserving sweet.
Hath left me gaged. To you, Antonio,
Let me request you off: our graver business
Farewell; and if my fortune be not crost,
That frowns on me looks sadly upon him.
My lord?
All but Metellus Cimber; and he's gone
What is't your highness' pleasure I shall do at
How that ambitious Constance would not cease
I give him curses, yet he gives me love.
Then let me stay; and, father, do you fly:
Against the Volsces, for they had so vilely
I would break a thousand oaths to reign one year.
I beseech you, pardon me, my lord, if I be mistaken;
You loved, I loved for intermission.
Of healths five-fathom deep; and then anon
That's your superstition.
Thrice-nobler than myself!
Applauding our approach.
For aught I see, this city must be famish'd,
Some unborn sorrow, ripe in fortune's womb,
Alack, sir, I am sand-blind; I know you not.
Thou hast spoken right, 'tis true;
You may not deny it: Pompey hath made the challenge.
It doth so, holy sir; and there's my master,
But dare maintain the party of the truth,
Aumerle, thou weep'st, my tender-hearted cousin!
Enter LORD FITZWATER
Had been her husband rather than a Christian!
To meet the least occasion that may give me
What mean these masterless and gory swords
Widow, we will consider of your suit;
responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages,
ACT V
What is thy sentence then but speechless death,
and they will learn you by rote where services were
That you have in her, bid her answer truly.
As I perceived it, I must tell you that,
This is the fairy land: O spite of spites!
[Aside]	To betray me.--
But not remember'd in thy epitaph!
Ecoutez: comment etes-vous appele?
Thou canst compel no more than she entreat:
With such holiness can you do it?
We'll celebrate their nuptials, and ourselves
And worthily, my falsehood! yea, as much
Thy by-gone fooleries were but spices of it.
Enter the KING, NORTHUMBERLAND, WORCESTER, HOTSPUR, SIR WALTER BLUNT, with others
Desire them an to my pavilion.
Well, sir, by this you cannot get my land:
Content yourself. God knows I loved my niece;
To the tuition of God: From my house, if I had it,--
Then makes him nothing. I must read this paper;
SCENE I. London. The palace.
Speak England first, that hath been forward first
E'er the blither for their drouth.
Pluck the grave wrinkled senate from the bench,
Good heart, what grace hast thou, thus to reprove
Wives may be merry, and yet honest too:
My matter is so rash: there is at hand
Re-enter GHOST OF BANQUO
Made me a looker on here in Vienna,
And here I swear by all the Roman gods,
Upon a dwarfish thief.
I here importune death awhile, until
And nothing pleaseth but rare accidents.
Did this break-from her: 'Good Antigonus,
His goods confiscate to the duke's dispose,
Is set afire by thine own ignorance,
SCENE VI. Friar Laurence's cell.
Go, go into old Titus' sorrowful house,
For Hecuba!
But, if thou be a king, where is thy crown?
And there receive her approbation:
Pretend some alteration in good will?
He's irremoveable,
cried 'budget,' as Anne and I had appointed; and yet
Enough to purchase such another island,
What, are they children? who maintains 'em? how are
Therefore I think I am not in the night;
Enter Chamberlain
Here's no knavery! See, to beguile the old folks,
O, very mad, exceeding mad, in love too:
For, well I wot, thou hast thy mother's tongue.
Madam, I had rather--
In your condemned seconds.
brawl: souls and bodies hath he divorced three; and
No less in truth than life: my first false speaking
That's a brave god and bears celestial liquor.
Nay, I told you your son was well beloved in Padua.
Nay, 'twill be this hour ere I have done weeping;
The many to them longing, have put off
He cannot, sir; he's out at elbow.
twice on the banns; such a commodity of warm slaves,
The courses of his youth promised it not.
What, are men mad? Hath nature given them eyes
Enter two Clowns, with spades,  and c
To swearing and stern looks, diffused attire
good enough.
Our solemn hymns to sullen dirges change,
We sympathize: Jove, let AEneas live,
break, your gaskins fall.
Madam, so thrive I in my enterprise
When the tongue's office should be prodigal
will give you as much as this old man does when the
Friar, thou knowest not the duke so well as I do:
Once in contempt they would have barter'd me:
In lists, on Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk,
Yet AEolus would not be a murderer,
Why, what means this? Why do you look on me?
Farewell, Andronicus: Revenge now goes
Are visibly character'd and engraved,
Well, that rascal hath good mettle in him; he will not run.
And how oft did you say his beard was not well cut?
Have loved without this mean, if on both parts
Most honour'd madam,
Why doth your highness look so pale and wan?
Deceive more slily than Ulysses could,
We shall appear before him. On there; pass along!
Where I may read who pass'd that passing fair?
FLAMINIUS waiting. Enter a Servant to him
glad of it.
Enter JOHN OF GAUNT sick, with the DUKE OF YORK, and c
Go you the next way with your findings. I'll go see
Than ever Greek did compass in his arms,
Which in the eleventh year of the last king's reign
And not unluckily against the bias.
But if I thrive, the gain of my attempt
'Keep it, my Pericles; it hath been a shield
O, vile! then, as she goes, what upward lies
And sometime make the drink to bear no barm;
enjoyed nothing of Ford's but his buck-basket, his
Lay hands upon him.
Biron, they will shame us: let them not approach.
heavens; he shows me where the bachelors sit, and
With chaces. And we understand him well,
by a divine thrusting on: an admirable evasion
struck him down, the disdain and shame whereof hath
And thus I'll curb her mad and headstrong humour.
and I will have more time to prepare me, or they
forthwith: dismiss your attendant there: look it be done.
To stay the providence of some high powers
Bears such an emphasis? whose phrase of sorrow
Drum beats. Exeunt ALCIBIADES, PHRYNIA, and TIMANDRA
It may be right; but you are i' the wrong
Upon thine honour, is he prisoner?
gentlewoman to Hero.
Why, and I challenge nothing but my dukedom,
Darest thou support a publish'd traitor? Hence;
So to be valiant is no praise at all.
Datchet-lane: they took me on their shoulders; met
I do.
Cannot but feel this wrong as 'twere their own;
She knew his love, lest she make sport at it.
Give me thy hand: I will swear to the prince thou
Upon the number'd beach? and can we not
For men to see, and seeing wonder at.
Save you, friend Cassio!
That thus he marcheth with thee arm in arm?
For their advantage and your highness' loss.
For you have but mistook me all this while:
Bring thou the master to the citadel;
Sir, I have seen you in the court of France.
that, making God so free an offer, He let him
Upon the stroke of four.
It is: may it be done?
Could have knock'd out his brains, for he had none:
As now I reap at thy too cruel hand!
That 'scuse serves many men to save their gifts.
stick it in thy cap: when Alencon and myself were
Exit
Enter a Messenger
The fits o' the season. I dare not speak
As infants' empty of all thought!
Having more man than wit about me, drew:
But jealous for they are jealous: 'tis a monster
Your laboursome and dainty trims, wherein
A saucy stranger in his court to mart
We'll keep no great ado,--a friend or two;
Doing himself offence; whilst we, lying still,
thy hand to laugh a little.
The Prince of Arragon hath ta'en his oath,
Exeunt all but BRUTUS
five-score.
All of companionship.
This fellow is wise enough to play the fool;
We see yonder the beginning of the day, but I think
And were his daughter fairer than she is,
If you meet a thief, you may suspect him, by virtue
themselves in their own straps.
And more, more strong, then lesser is my fear,
The French and English, there miscarried
Enter ANGELO and ESCALUS
Or here or elsewhere to the furthest verge
Shall best instruct you, measure me; and so
wise men do foolishly.
on's teeth.
I care not:
but be merry? for, look you, how cheerfully my
world. Here comes two of the banished duke's pages.
And he shall be Vincentio of Pisa;
One minute, nay, one quiet breath of rest.
For what he did before Corioli, call him,
But milk my ewes and weep.
unexperienced to thy grave.
As I seem now. Their transformations
To save unscratch'd your city's threatened cheeks,
themselves, they may pass for excellent men. Here
Because thou hast no face.
To her will, sir, or so.
Wherefore did they not
hates nothing more than he. Yet he's gentle, never
Enter FALSTAFF
Where on a sudden one hath wounded me,
Which being so horrible, so bloody, must
Well too.
unspotted soldiers: some peradventure have on them
And in the instant that I met with you
Show not their mealy wings but to the summer,
I nothing but to please his fantasy.
'His meanest garment!'
They're come from field: let us to Priam's hall,
fairly guide them! especially to you, fair queen!
is there no sequel at the heels of this mother's
orchard like a bum-baily: so soon as ever thou seest
Or with our sighs we'll breathe the welkin dim,
The several chairs of order look you scour
change this purpose,
You had much ado to make his anchor hold:
Ecstasy!
It must not be with this.
Flourish. Cornets. Exeunt in state, as before. BRUTUS and SICINIUS come forward
We'll pass the business privately and well.
Though palaces and pyramids do slope
Still more fool I shall appear
recompense this long stay: feast your ears with the
embraces his son-in-law; then again worries he his
Give me thy arm:
person; and much please the absent duke, if
Is Bridgenorth: and, Harry, you shall march
her in yellow stockings, and 'tis a colour she
CLIFFORD groans, and dies
To raise so great a siege. Therefore, great king,
Beat him enough: after a little time
But with a knave of common hire, a gondolier,
is deceived, or Sir John.
Did not I tell thee yea? hadst thou not order?
O that your highness knew my heart in this!
It is a basilisk unto mine eye,
Denies that saying. Sirrah, what say you?
Where Juliet lives; and every cat and dog
I do not like the man: had he been lay, my lord
another letter to her: she bears the purse too; she
Stigmatical in making, worse in mind.
head, nor no money in your purse? Your eyes are in
it; and he that I gave it to in change promised to
Why, but you are now well enough: how came you thus
Look to your house, your daughter and your bags!
I told him of myself; which was as much
That will not hold the handling: or say to them,
Because the law hath ta'en revenge on them.
Whose youthful spirit, in me regenerate,
To Asher House, my Lord of Winchester's,
Together with remembrance of ourselves.
Alack, I am afraid they have awaked,
Ay, ay, farewell; thy office is discharged.
and Gratii, two hundred and fifty each; mine own
Than Aquitaine, a dowry for a queen.
youth of the city?
Upon the hempen tackle ship-boys climbing;
O, my sweet lord, that you will stay behind us!
Searching the window for a flint, I found
And wherefore gaze this goodly company,
My lord, for aught I know.
Exeunt
Her true perfection, or my false transgression,
Iago beckons me; now he begins the story.
ACT I
How say you, madam? are you now persuaded
Proved us unspeaking sots.
Well, sweet queen. you are pleasant with me. But,
And as poor as Job?
Or say, sweet love, what thou desirest to eat.
Nay, that's impossible: she may wear her heart out first.
What of his heart perceive you in his face
Or whether 'twas report of her success;
I will, my lord.
The very head and front of my offending
And many an error by the same example
Why dost thou ask again?
Let it be who it is: for Romans now
SCENE III. A room in the palace.
And then I'll bring thee to the present business
Which oft our stage hath shown; and, for their sake,
Moral! no, by my troth, I have no moral meaning; I
I think your highness saw this many a day.
You see, her eyes are open.
lay with the little baggage.
A most incomparable man, breathed, as it were,
Creep in the minds and marrows of our youth,
which my nose is in great indignation.
Nay, never lay thy hand upon thy sword;
A prosperous south-wind friendly, we have cross'd,
My father was a Mortimer,--
O my fair warrior!
And, when thou hast done this chare, I'll give thee leave
Young Arthur is my son, and he is lost:
I say, yea.
Enter Nurse and PETER
This present summons?
It was his queen, his queen!
men are April when they woo, December when they wed:
ears a fork'd one!
The wildest savagery, the vilest stroke,
They would not mark me, or if they did mark,
Some patient leisure to excuse myself.
Of Murray, Angus, and Menteith:
If I speak true! if hollowly, invert
[Aside]  All of her that is out of door most rich!
Exeunt
I know it well, sir; you always end ere you begin.
No; you'll reveal it.
forked animal as thou art. Off, off, you lendings!
Quoth she, 'Here's but two and fifty hairs on your
Let's see your piece.
she is spherical, like a globe; I could find out
where's the chain? I pray you, let me see it.
And for me,
No, no, they do but jest, poison in jest; no offence
Saint Alban.
me his natural brother: therefore use thy
Every letter he hath writ hath disvouched other.
And with dishonour laid me on the ground;
Our necessary actions, in the fear
To wear a heart so white.
Take no offence that I would not offend you:
Thou out of heaven's benediction comest
Imagine him a Frenchman and thy foe.
Art then forsaken, as thou went'st forlorn!
I thank you, doctor.
By the mess, ere theise eyes of mine take themselves
One Isabel, a sister, desires access to you.
One that attends your ladyship's command.
And thou, thrice-crowned queen of night, survey
Assemble presently the people hither;
Think, thy slave man rebels, and by thy virtue
and undoes description to do it.
On some apparent danger seen in him
On your attendance, my lord; here.
Ay, my good lord; a very virtuous maid,
Which is a pound of this poor merchant's flesh,
His majesty seldom fears: I am Cressid's uncle,
To one so meek, that mine own servant should
I humbly do beseech you of your pardon
Joy to you, Mariana! Love her, Angelo:
And finds the testy gentleman so hot,
You may do your will;
Where man doth not inhabit; you 'mongst men
But let our plot go forward: let our wives
eyes; I will move storms, I will condole in some
Argues your wisdoms and your love to Richard:'
Pleased you to do't at peril of your soul,
And leave you naked.
I dream'd there was an Emperor Antony:
Sir, I propose not merely to myself
Unite commutual in most sacred bands.
The thought of my revenges that way
Shall I, for lucre of the rest unvanquish'd,
Like Amazons come tripping after drums,
Exeunt all but LYSANDER and HERMIA
As little is the wisdom, where the flight
In your denial I would find no sense;
No, I'll nothing: for if I should be bribed too,
What! shall we curse the planets of mishap
of them; if th' other two be brained like us, the
Meantime, God grants that we have need of you:
Both of you
And sudden push gives them the overthrow.
I know not how a traitor.
Or with the clamorous report of war
Is kindling coals that fires all my breast,
Would I had put my estate and my neighbour's on the
To overcome him: in that beastly fury
Where is he?
Henceforth I never will be Romeo.
Where's Potpan, that he helps not to take away? He
Countercheque Quarrelsome; the sixth, the Lie with
I should have ta'en some pains to bring together
The state of your affection; for your passions
Devised a new commission, wrote it fair:
Sir, know you this glove?
Or hand of man hath done; therefore I keep it
You have shot over.
An untimely ague
Enter LADY MACBETH and a Servant
Springs not from Edward's well-meant honest love,
And pluck up drowned honour by the locks;
This, this: no more, you gods! your present kindness
I am in my condition
To say the dead are well: bring it to that,
A touch, a touch, I do confess.
The empire of the sea: our slippery people,
[Aside]	Then poor Cordelia!
Which, for they yet glance by and scarcely bruise,
Not one of those but had a noble father.
Few words, but, to effect, more than all yet;
Been publicly accused, so shall she have
Pre-eminence, and all the large effects
My worthy arch and patron, comes to-night:
Well said, noble woman?
Thaw and resolve itself into a dew!
fellows in the world, an a man could light on them,
Prizes of accident as oft as merit:
before you came; for look here what I found on a
Before the kings and queens of France.
What is this maid with whom thou wast at play?
Enter CARDINAL PANDULPH
Albeit I'll swear that I do know your tongue.
Thy stomach, pleasure and thy golden sleep?
ANTIPHOLUS
Hath he set bounds betwixt their love and me?
By'r lakin, I can go no further, sir;
ACT I
I'll see that straight.
were the most needless creatures living, should we
I'll follow you, I'll lead you about a round,
A sleeping potion; which so took effect
Rightly reasoned, and in his own division: and, by
Long live Lord Titus, my beloved brother,
And though that nature with a beauteous wall
At any time speak aught?
Is there more toil? Since thou dost give me pains,
His friend that dips in the same dish? for, in
Now are we well resolved; and, by God's help,
Thou art a villain.
As full of labour as a wise man's art
Which he calls interest. Cursed be my tribe,
That Rome should dote on: yet, by the faith of men,
[Aside to MENAS]  I think thou'rt mad.
Let us consult upon to-morrow's business
had inkling this fortnight what we intend to do,
I am a soldier, and unapt to weep,
Is able with the change to kill and cure.
But tell me, wench, how will the world repute me
Women to change their shapes than men their minds.
That ever Hector and Achilles meet;
As children from a bear, the Volsces shunning him:
But now her price is fall'n. Sir, there she stands:
the hanging of the thieves and so become a rare hangman.
Come on your ways; open your mouth; here is that
What, fought you with them all?
Here, quite confounded with this mutiny.
Away, get thee away; good friend, be gone:
'twas not so, but, indeed, God forbid it should be
And when such time they have begun to cry,
And, like ambitious Sylla, overgorged
You are a lover; borrow Cupid's wings,
Exeunt
I'll call him presently, my noble lord.
right butter-women's rank to market.
To furnish Rome, and to prepare the ways
Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than
Enter KATHARINE and ALICE
Buy thou the cottage, pasture and the flock,
Cry 'O sweet creature!' and then kiss me hard,
Bravely, coragio!
Show'd thy dear mother any courtesy,
Alack, alack, is it not like that I,
Ithaca full of moths. Come; I would your cambric
With one that ties his points?
Sleep, Richmond, sleep in peace, and wake in joy;
accusative, hung, hang, hog.
Is all of her; say that thou overheard'st us;
[Coming forward]  Let me see't, let me see't, O, let
Why, Percy I killed myself and saw thee dead.
Signior, is all your family within?
I may, for some things true, wherein my youth
But wilt thou faithfully?
three pound, lift as much as his brother Hector.
By thinking on the frosty Caucasus?
Here at my house and at my proper cost.
the pantry, and every thing in extremity. I must
But Romeo may not; he is banished:
Why, then, your visor should be thatched.
By the defiling of her parent's bed;
flattery, not out of my promise.
Exit
A woman well-reputed, Cato's daughter.
That he did owe him: and I know, my lord,
When nature flamed this piece, she meant thee a good
You that way and you this, but two in company;
Is this the promise that you made your mother?
To have bereft a prince of all his fortunes;
Of all the gentry: there is Siward's son,
Or else reproach be Talbot's greatest fame!
Come on, sir; here's the place: stand still. How fearful
shall see him.
And the mountain tops that freeze,
prove you a fool.
He says, to veil full purpose.
For all her cherubim look.
Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
Pardon, my liege, that I have stay'd so long.
Toad!
As you do love your lady Silvia:
In the protection of his son, her brother,
stage, this hawthorn-brake our tiring-house; and we
My brain I'll prove the female to my soul,
Ay, sir; well, well.
That's good; 'mobled queen' is good.
A beauty-waning and distressed widow,
There's some in hope.
Speak, brother, hast thou hurt thee with the fall?
Immediately they will again be here
Is more vindicative than jealous love:
As I do pray the gods.
Can ye endure to hear this arrogance?
Some wine, ho!
I do affect a sorrow indeed, but I have it too.
I am a tainted wether of the flock,
And cannot now accept; to grace him only
And send to darkness all that stop me. Come,
Bring them, I pray thee, with imagined speed
This England never did, nor never shall,
Gives him a letter
Keep then far league and truce with thy true bed;
Conscience is but a word that cowards use,
Exit
[To PISANIO]            Hark thee, a word.
Deliver this with modesty to the queen.
ACT II
No, by my troth, I did not mean such love.
With Mars fall out, with Juno chide,
But what, is Catesby gone?
That we may arm us to encounter it.
Near and on speedy foot; the main descry
He hath a stern look, but a gentle heart:
Come, I'll do for thee what I can; come your ways.
My name hath touch'd your ears it is Menenius.
Relieved, but not betray'd.
bring forth this counterfeit module, he has deceived
No.
I something fear my father's wrath; but nothing--
kinsman, she's nothing allied to your disorders. If
Exeunt
Do like the mutines of Jerusalem,
No lady closer; for I well believe
The strongest nerves and small inferior veins
Apollo would, this being indeed the issue
You are so merciful: I see your end;
That in submission will return to us:
money presently. Wife, take her in; instruct her
What Cloten's being here to us portends,
belly's as cold as if I had swallowed snowballs for
Spurn at his edict and fulfil a man's?
Nor we disturb'd with prodigies on earth.
DON
A league below the city; and from thence,
But what trade art thou? answer me directly.
Though no man lesser fears the Greeks than I
Now will I charge you in the band of truth,
Farewell, revolted fair! and, Diomed,
Peace, impudent and shameless Warwick, peace,
Enter OLIVIA and Priest
What hath this day deserved? what hath it done,
Now Jove afford you cause!
That even our loves should with our fortunes change;
not the stop. A good moral, my lord: it is not
after: a pestilent complete knave; and the woman
Is the fair hand that writ.
I'll call them back again to comfort me:
paper-mill. It will be proved to thy face that thou
This matter of marrying his king's daughter, wherein
Ask me not what I know.
Ay, marry, sir, now looks he like a king!
Arraign her first; 'tis Goneril. I here take my
And most chirurgeonly.
sure, they are bastards to the English; the French
And thou, Lord Bourbon, our high admiral,
SCENE III. Friar Laurence's cell.
Collect them all together at my tent:
Is of so flood-gate and o'erbearing nature
custom-shrunk.
We have this hour a constant will to publish
Restrain in me the cursed thoughts that nature
The true blank of thine eye.
I wish you well, and so I take my leave.
She cannot deny it.
Let's not meet her.
But who comes with our brother Marcus here?
His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
For then I pity those I do not know,
Mine eye's clear eye, my dear heart's dearer heart,
Such it seems
Consider further,
To hear thee speak of Naples. He does hear me;
Re-enter FLUELLEN, GOWER following
Notice of my affair. I humbly thank you:
Do you think 'tis this?
Gods, put the strength o' the Leonati in me!
That might your nature, honour and exception
My being here it is that holds thee hence:
That sun, I pray, may never set! I have told him
Good morrow, good wife.
Lord! when 'twas a little prating thing:--O, there
O, my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too
I cannot name; 'tis nameless woe, I wot.
Is this the balsam that the usuring senate
SCENE III. The same. A street.
breath stinks with eating toasted cheese.
[Reads]  'with a child of our grandmother Eve, a
Come hither: ah, you precious pander! Villain,
SCENE III. France. KING LEWIS XI's palace.
Tu-who, a merry note,
Enter LUCENTIO, HORTENSIO, and BIANCA
Is love a tender thing? it is too rough,
I gird thee with the valiant sword of York:
Forwearied in this action of swift speed,
You must lay lime to tangle her desires
Without ripe moving to't? Would I do this?
I hear my father coming: pardon me:
Decrepit miser! base ignoble wretch!
Even as one heat another heat expels,
whipping, and hanging.
Upon whose dead corpse there was such misuse,
Is bound for Italy; he embark'd at Milford;
And poor in worth! Now shall we see to-morrow--
To satisfy my lady.
Thou art all the comfort
Dies
Since you do take it, love, so much at heart.
That thus delays my promised supply
And bloody England into England gone,
falling out that year on Ash-Wednesday was four
Shalt carry from me to the empress' sons
Shall more attend upon the coming space,
I shall desire you of more acquaintance, good Master
When have I aught exacted at your hands,
that loves quails; but he has not so much brain as
Show me one scar character'd on thy skin:
Tut, tut, thou art all ice, thy kindness freezeth:
Too late, good Diomed: call my guard, I prithee.
Which reformation must be sudden too,
To their benumbed wills, resist the same,
The fellow has a deal of that too much,
Enter FRIAR LAURENCE and ROMEO
Dispute it like a man.
Exeunt
Good Michael, look you to the guard to-night:
Virtue itself turns vice, being misapplied;
As my great patron thought on in my prayers,--
As from your graves rise up, and walk like sprites,
Come down upon us with a mighty power,
That silk will I go buy.
Go home to bed, and like the owl by day,
All will be naught else.
Belong to Egypt: good now, play one scene
Look what I have.
manly spirit: adieu.
[Aside]  If I find him comforting the king, it will
By my troth, I speak my thought.
To hide your doings; and to silence that,
All take hands.
Do you think so?
Proteus, I thank thee for thine honest care;
A lord of Trojan blood, nephew to Hector;
Must lave our honours in these flattering streams,
Mistress?
Enter PUCK
And swear I lost the ring defending it.
What do you prate of service?
look to 't.
Things standing thus unknown, shall live behind me!
and revels sometimes altogether.
Is more to bread than stone: hence shall we see,
consent to you: if any man may, you may as soon as
That is new-trimm'd, but benefit no further
And now to London with triumphant march,
Because thou art a woman, and disclaim'st
Being thus be-netted round with villanies,--
And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio? Marcellus?
general course of action. 'Zounds, an I were now by
Exeunt
It cannot be.
Exeunt all but LAFEU and PAROLLES
Forborne the getting of a lawful race,
out!' that any madness I ever yet beheld seemed but
Cleopatra's health to drink.
No, I'll not be your half
Edmund, farewell.
And begg'd the ring; the which I did deny him
Thou art the issue of my dear offence,
Ah, would the scandal vanish with my life,
I will not sleep, Hortensio, till I see her;
The church's prayers made him so prosperous.
Come then, and take the last warmth of my lips.
Till then, in patience our proceeding be.
More straining on for plucking back, not following
Though Birnam wood be come to Dunsinane,
The valiant heart is not whipt out of his trade.
A gentle riddance. Draw the curtains, go.
Signior Gratiano? I cry you gentle pardon;
And most forsworn, to keep what thou dost swear.
Smite flat the thick rotundity o' the world!
wears for his sake; and he, a marble to her tears,
Thou seest the world, Volumnius, how it goes;
Enter SIMONIDES, THAISA, Lords, and Attendants
A workman in't.
But, lords, we hear this fearful tempest sing,
It is the flesh of a corrupted heart.
With all his threatening band of Typhon's brood,
Upon my blessing, I command thee go.
Then is there mirth in heaven,
Yes; I think he is not a pick-purse nor a
As thou art knight, never to disobey
I'll answer that.
This likes me well. These foils have all a length?
The beasts, the fishes, and the winged fowls,
Therefore we marvel much our cousin France
I will rather sue to be despised than to deceive so
If it be so, then both depart to him;
But, sure, I fear, we shall ne'er win him to it.
Sir, March is wasted fourteen days.
There is a cliff, whose high and bending head
Thy name and honourable family,
What shall be said to thee?
We all expect a gentle answer, Jew.
Upon one battle all our liberties.
Tempt him not so too far; I wish, forbear:
sinews, or else there be liars. Hector have a great
In undetermined differences of kings.
To talk with him and to behold his visage,
By you invited, do attend your presence.
I.
I caused you write, yet sent away?
Carve for himself; for on his choice depends
Pardon, old father, my mistaking eyes,
We have heard your miseries as far as Tyre,
In his rage and his wrath,
Thou hast saved me a thousand marks in links and
Sound a flourish, with drums
Nought's had, all's spent,
This orb o' the earth. His last offences to us
Would I had been by, to have helped the old man!
That you would put me to this shame and trouble;
He is full of valour as of kindness;
Thy napkin cannot drink a tear of mine,
Bold in the quarrel's right, roused to the encounter,
is here! I think our fellows are asleep.
Indeed, left nothing fitting for the purpose
My lord, I am more amazed at his dishonour
Agamemnon is a fool to offer to command Achilles;
worn out thy pump, that when the single sole of it
Enter a Gentleman
And I shall find you empty of that fault,
I have perform'd my task and was espoused:
Therefore, my lord, it highly us concerns
Has deserved prison, then abound in tears
In brief, a braver choice of dauntless spirits
He may my proffer take for an offence,
you to this?
The red rose and the white are on his face,
He hath, my lord.
Though news be sad, yet tell them merrily;
For to seek my mother!
porridge than in your cheek; and your virginity,
I'll give thee armour to keep off that word:
like a porter: and he was in love.
And with the vantage of mine own excuse
purse when he looks so merrily.
What a loss our ladies
I am sure you have: speak truth; ye're honest men.
To be the post, in hope of his reward.
To equal any single crown o' the earth
To King Edward the Third; whereas he
of Queen Hermione's, her jewel about the neck of it,
What sport shall we devise here in this garden,
But time hath nothing blurr'd those lines of favour
Which way thou travellest: if along with us,
Your worship was the last man in our mouths.
From fairies and the tempters of the night
Than to be thirsty after tottering honour,
My foolish rival, that her father likes
All that are here: some come to take their ease,
and let me desire to know how you find Claudio
A cause for thy repeal, we shall not send
That she was never yet that ever knew
A cause more promising
Well, my lord.
Our lamp is spent, it's out! Good sirs, take heart:
the wars do as every sick man in his bed, wash every
Trebles thee o'er.
To me, should utter, with demure confidence
This, Decius Brutus.
all my fame for a pot of ale and safety.
Yet hear me speak. Assist me in my purpose,
not drowned i' the last rain, ha? What sayest
It is to be all made of faith and service;
And tell me truly what thou think'st of him.
that my desire of having is the sin of covetousness:
When living light should kiss it?
dog that lives: my mother weeping, my father
entertainment, your inclining cannot be removed.
Comes it not something near?
In the next chamber.
Exeunt
If to preserve this vessel for my lord
For he is footed in this land already.
'Tis strange he hides him in fresh cups, soft beds,
Virtue with valour couched in thine eye.
great folk should have countenance in this world to
About it; and write happy when thou hast done.
But we both obey,
his land comes to: he will not believe a fool.
of Anjou and the county of Maine shall be released
Must pity drop upon her. Verily,
Grace! not so, friend: honour and lordship are my titles.
Let me have audience; I am sent to speak:
Well, we shall see your bearing.
And twice to-day pick'd out the dullest scent:
Where wilt thou find a cavern dark enough
These and these conveyances of our blood
You may deny me; but I'll be your servant,
Where should he have this gold? It is some poor
This peroration with such circumstance?
of it. A prize! a prize!
His country's bowels out. And to poor we
Hail, sir! my lord, lend ear.
There is one goat for you.
Proclaim'd at market-crosses, read in churches,
SCENE II. A room in the Garter Inn.
He hath studied her will, and translated her will,
What do you think?
Against the use of nature? Present fears
Misuse the tenor of thy kinsman's trust?
Ride, ride, Messala, ride, and give these bills
Come hither, you rogue. What, have you forgot me?
Exit
Ay, sir; we did sleep day out of countenance, and
Good my lord, will you see the players well
And so he plays his part. The sixth age shifts
I prithee, good Grumio, tell me, how goes the world?
'Twas you we laughed at.
Some nobler token I have kept apart
To fine the faults whose fine stands in record,
certain that when he makes water his urine is
And play the humble host.
Whom this beneath world doth embrace and hug
You! did you?
I'll put in bail, my liege.
I have lost my gown.
sent thee thither. For debt, Pompey? or how?
Our prayers do out-pray his; then let them have
[Awaking]  When my cue comes, call me, and I will
Death.
labouring men; and therefore should we be
If thou be pleased with this my sudden choice,
Mangling by starts the full course of their glory.
The cable broke, the holding-anchor lost,
As doth a rock against the chiding flood,
Ye see, I drink the water of mine eyes.
O, grief hath changed me since you saw me last,
My lord, I'll tell my lady you will come.
Or if I might buffet for my love, or bound my horse
And some donation freely to estate
Be call'd to him.
This fellow could not drown. Now, blasphemy,
Not by his breath that is more miserable.
If Warwick knew in what estate he stands,
Sir, she can turn, and turn, and yet go on,
That war against your own affections
Exeunt BELARIUS and ARVIRAGUS
Why speaks my father so ungently? This
[Aside]            All the better: may
There is a play to-night before the king;
ever before. Give me thy hand, Roderigo: thou hast
Not like a corse; or if, not to be buried,
opened, and you find so much blood in his liver as
them in my forehead: and let me be vilely painted,
Hath she had any more than one husband?
Is this the generation of love? hot blood, hot
Of comely virtues:
And go we to attire you for our journey.
and one Mordake, and a thousand blue-caps more:
Re-enter POINS
Enter DIOMEDES and a Servant
Of York, is it not?
Should be infused with so foul a spirit!
This is a dreadful sentence.
SCENE IX. Another part of the plains.
Staying for waftage. O, be thou my Charon,
The riches of it: do his bidding; strike
I cannot weep; nor answer have I none,
Exit
Acordo linta.
Bespake them thus: 'I thank you, countrymen:'
For both our sakes, I would that word were true.
No, we'll no Bullens. Speedily I wish
You say he has been thrown in the rivers and has
Of Edmund Mortimer, who married Philippe,
As likely to be blest in peace and war;
I understand you not.
am no honest man if there be any good meaning
contract of her marriage and the day it is
O my dear brother!
Enter a Messenger
And often did beguile her of her tears,
There is no way but this, Sir Andrew.
After he scores, he never pays the score:
Yon king's to me like to my father's picture,
With rigorous hands: he hath resisted law,
Forced by the tide to combat with the wind;
These English monsters! My Lord of Cambridge here,
For women are as roses, whose fair flower
'My daughter! O my ducats! O my daughter!
Welcome, Iago; we must to the watch.
Besides, they are our outward consciences,
And others more, going to seek the grave
Nor nothing in your letters writ of her?
O, Nicholas Hopkins?
Do not, dear father.
I'd not believe thee. Henceforth guard thee well;
BISHOP
Why, know you not? the lords are all come back,
gentleman of the greatest promise that ever came
many of the rich are damned: but, if I may have
Follow such creatures. That you may, fair lady,
Upon my knee I beg, go not to arms
For present parting; only he desires
Without a burthen: time as long again
King Henry, be thy title right or wrong,
Doth weep to see his grandsire's heaviness.
On him so near us? This needs must be a practise.
Perhaps is but prolong'd: have patience and endure.
I'll decline the whole question. Agamemnon commands
First, hear me speak.
rest of the herd to me that all their other senses
O place and greatness! millions of false eyes
I mean not cuckold-mad;
We attend.
Fear you not my part of the dialogue.
heard that men of few words are the best men; and
Observe, observe, he's moody.
Than thou went'st forth in lamentation.
Now forth, lord constable and princes all,
Marry, do I, sir; and I came to acquaint you with a
Which doth amount to three odd ducats more
Were he not proud, we all should share with him:
Saw you Aufidius?
is more hotter in France than there.
I'll weep what's left away, and weeping die.
If by your art, my dearest father, you have
Enter BIANCA
They cannot budge till your release. The king,
Ay; and you'll look pale
What now remains, my lords, for us to do
I once did lend my body for his wealth;
Bid her send me presently a thousand pound:
of all treasons, we still see them reveal
But now thy uncle is removing hence:
Teach me to be your queen, and you my subjects:
Ay:
They fell before thee like sheep and oxen, and thou
That angel of the world, doth make distinction
Madam, this is a mere distraction;
A back-friend, a shoulder-clapper, one that
this, dies instantly; I have seen her die twenty
No enigma, no riddle, no l'envoy; no salve in the
He speaks plain cannon fire, and smoke and bounce;
Prove false!
To signify thou camest to bite the world:
[Aside to ISABELLA]  You are too cold.
Either expound now, or receive your sentence.
What say'st thou?
Than to be dealt in by attorneyship;
The other did not so.
The king was weeping-ripe for a good word.
Emilia, come. Be as your fancies teach you;
The curse my noble father laid on thee,
For so run the conditions, leave those remnants
Daughter to Charlemain, who was the son
slighted me into the river with as little remorse as
And let me show you him that made the will.
You and your apron-men; you that stood so up much
Makes sound opinion sick and truth suspected,
For our case is as theirs.
I'll give thee, ere I leave thee, so much money,
Forbid the sun to enter, like favourites,
Than to live still and write mine epitaph.
The dead men's blood, the pining maidens groans,
How may the duke be therewith satisfied,
His tongue, all impatient to speak and not see,
Well hath your highness seen into this duke;
Gloucester;
You are a saucy fellow:
One word in secret.
Fell banning hag, enchantress, hold thy tongue!
Exit
Hie you, make haste, for it grows very late.
you should know my daughter by her garments?
Now, what's the business?
Hath stol'n it from her?
Unless I prove false traitor to myself.
For you shall read that my great-grandfather
If voluble and sharp discourse be marr'd,
Hath nobly held; our sever'd navy too
But wonder on, till truth make all things plain.
Fly, noble English, you are bought and sold;
Let not your ears despise my tongue for ever,
Either they must be dieted like mules
Her father hath commanded her to slip
Were in your love a whip to me; my stay
In happy time, Iago.
Which the poor heart would fain deny, and dare not. Seyton!
To have well-armed friends.
Then she puts you to entreaty, and there begins new matter.
Gentle spectators, that I now may be
that kills my heart.
Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
Hath Cassius lived
Ay, with Cassio. Nay, had she been true,
I have not, my lord, deserved it.
Directly unto this question that I ask:
Is it fit I went to look upon him? is there no
When I shall turn the business of my soul
O, twice my father, twice am I thy son!
To put my father in impatient thoughts
Against the pope and count his friends my foes.
To do your grace incessant services.
Gathering up the pieces
Go, get you to your house; be gone, away!
Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
Throng to the bar, crying all, Guilty! guilty!
SCENE III. Wales. Before Flint castle.
Yes, yes; he teaches boys the hornbook. What is a,
I know when one is dead, and when one lives;
Thou must be patient; we came crying hither:
What, are you up here, ho? speak.
Have you so soon forgot the entertainment
My man-monster hath drown'd his tongue in sack:
Loves for his own ends, not for you.
Here, my good lord.
And pluck the wings from Painted butterflies
I'll never care what wickedness I do,
gondola. Why, how now, Orlando! where have you been
These four came all a-front, and mainly thrust at
That you have wrong'd me doth appear in this:
Exit LONGAVILLE
And his comrades, that daff'd the world aside,
Enter Fool
'Tis true, my lords, he did.
No, good Master Fenton.
Upon this overweening traitor's foot,
then; or else shall he suffer not thinking on, with
Intending deep suspicion: ghastly looks
For good Polonius' death; and we have done but greenly,
Some six miles off the duke is with the soldiers;
latter end of a play, before the duke:
Creatures that by a rule in nature teach
ANTIPHOLUS
Master Lorenzo, sola, sola!
Thou runn'st before me, shifting every place,
Exit
That's fed with stinking tallow; it were fit
Nay, but hark you, Francis: for the sugar thou
'Tis not due yet; I would be loath to pay him before
Or the hard rein which both of them have borne
Which, you say, live to come in my behalf.
Nothing but a colossus can do thee that friendship.
Double, double toil and trouble;
And, for they cannot, die in their own pride.
The odds for high and low's alike.
Cancel his bond of life, dear God, I prey,
taken a solemn leave: his lordship will next
And telling me the sovereign'st thing on earth
For the supply and profit of our hope,
enough in his belly. Hold, there is twelve pence
Enter MARCUS
Sir Hugh is there, is he?
And, to be more than what you were, you would
Farewell, my lords: we look for you to-morrow.
Sola! did you see Master Lorenzo?
The king's late scruple, by the main assent
I am a very foolish fond old man,
And yet I would it were to give again.
A greater crack: the round world
Hast prisoner held, fetter'd in amorous chains
paid you more, which will shame you to give him again.
We were never so much out of creatures. We have but
When fearful wars point at me; her son gone,
Which I have spoke of, whereunto your levy
Do not cry havoc, where you should but hunt
That slew the Sophy and a Persian prince
the king's mess: 'tis a chough; but, as I say,
I thank you for your own. Now, gentlemen,
The Governor and some Citizens on the walls; the English forces below. Enter KING HENRY and his train
And kings have been your fellows.
He shall be executed presently.
indeed, he has no pace, but runs where he will.
O weary reckoning!
Hath charged you should not speak together.
Were he the veriest antic in the world.
found it, and there an end.
melancholy out of a song, as a weasel sucks eggs.
Stay yet, Lord Salisbury; I'll go with thee,
As yet, to question you about your fortunes.
More than the common blocks: not noted, is't,
We stand up peerless.
Me a groat!
ACT I
Against such lewdsters and their lechery
the lunatic.
Catch sung
Because I wish'd this world's eternity.
Poor I was slain when Bassianus died.
The most remark'd i' the kingdom. As for Cromwell,
It tutors nature: artificial strife
Hark, slave, it is but this:
Is't not a goodly presence?
Where men enforced do speak anything.
is not this my jerkin? Now is the jerkin under
I know, in honour, O, that ever I
From youth of such a season, 'fore noble Lucius
The shaft confounds,
No; to the spital go,
want. Here comes Sir Oliver.
And witch the world with noble horsemanship.
That died by law for murder of our brother,
So dreadful will not be as was his sight.
To speak before your time. Proceed.
Lo, by thy side where Rape and Murder stands;
Which welcome we'll accept; feast here awhile,
Which he deserves to lose. Whether he was combined
there is a devil haunts thee in the likeness of an
If you be hired for meed, go back again,
Now march we hence: discharge the common sort
That feeds and breeds by a composture stolen
He'ld lay the future open. You good gods,
Though not for me, yet for your vehement oaths,
For, in my sense, 'tis happiness to die.
Upon my party! Thou cold-blooded slave,
For she will score your fault upon my pate.
If yet her brother's pardon be come hither:
With which he yoketh your rebellious necks,
The tomb where grief should sleep, can breed me quiet?
I think, by this he is.
He shall be thrown down the Tarpeian rock
come forth?
array. Tom's a-cold.
Tranio, I saw her coral lips to move
Be this sweet Helen's knell, and now forget her.
But Athenian found I none,
And, ignorant of his birth and parentage,
But as the unthought-on accident is guilty
You shall outlive the lady whom you serve.
and then rejourn the controversy of three pence to a
That little cares for buying any thing.
The cardinal is the end of this.
Whether the tyranny be in his place,
And do him homage as obedient subjects;
That no particular scandal once can touch
They play
He could not miss't.
When that I say the city-woman bears
All that is virtuous, save what thou dislikest,
Exit
Lord Talbot, do not so dishonour me:
When capital crimes, chew'd, swallow'd and digested,
Shall be eternized in all age to come.
Nor thou, nor he, are any sons of mine;
Good queen, let us entreat you.
Apollo. You that way: we this way.
Know you not, master, to some kind of men
argument, Achilles.
Which, unreversed, stands in effectual force--
And now at length they overflow their banks.
A little proudly, and great deal misprizing
In him there is a hope of government,
Your private grudge, my Lord of York, will out,
Makes me most forward in this noble presence
Of us and those that love you. Best of comfort;
not by Fortune fall into the fire? Though Nature
That almost burst the deck.
Nay, I have offer'd all, I have no more;
Rebellion in this land shall lose his sway,
me; I will neither be faced nor braved. I say unto
Your children's children quit it in your age.
That warmer days would come: in these sear'd hopes,
Thy brother Marcus tenders on thy lips:
The power of Caesar, and
I met in travel toward his warlike father!
Save that, in love unto Demetrius,
Enter MENENIUS and SICINIUS
Methinks I hear him now; his plausive words
Now, sir, who's a cuckold now? Master Brook,
Exeunt, marching
Exeunt Citizens
Did the king sigh, but with a general groan.
The mutual conference that my mind hath had,
Now, all the plagues that in the pendulous air
But you, that are polluted with your lusts,
How should I your true love know
and so there is, but it lies as coldly in him as fire
This maid will serve my turn, sir.
And help to arm me. Leave me, I say.
No, not a word; how can I grace my talk,
Asleep, my love?
From stem to stern: the boatswain whistles, and
SCENE IV. Camp of the YORK in Anjou.
He will not fight with me, Domitius.
Accursed tower! accursed fatal hand
To rib her cerecloth in the obscure grave.
I must not yield to any rites of love,
The master calls, and trebles their confusion.
the beds of eels as my giving out her beauty stir up
Aside
What would you have, friend? whence are you?
But not for joy; not joy. This entertainment
That did but show thee, of a fool, inconstant
I'll hear you more, to the bottom of your story,
Repair thy wit, good youth, or it will fall
With half the bulk o' the world play'd as I pleased,
A rage whose heat hath this condition,
Shall be this cold corpse on the earth's cold face;
Enter PRINCE HENRY
With all my heart.
But let determined things to destiny
foolish sapling, and must be bowed as I would have
I would wish me only he.
Whilst our commission from Rome is read,
Believe me, I do not believe thee, man;
Enter VALENTINE and SPEED
There my Lysander and myself shall meet;
Do you quarrel, sir?
On my free will. My lord, Mark Antony,
But that a joy past joy calls out on me,
Exit JAQUES
Without more help, could fight this royal battle!
To be depender on a thing that leans,
SCENE I. Venice. A street.
Myself am moved to woo thee for my wife.
Enter DUKE ORSINO, CURIO, and other Lords; Musicians attending
Here comes my noble gull-catcher.
Writes me: 'That man, how dearly ever parted,
Let him be told so; lest perchance he think
Yield stinging nettles to mine enemies;
O, all you gods! O pretty, pretty pledge!
Into our city with thy banners spread:
To think upon my pomp shall be my hell.
Here lies my gown.
And say you do't by our permission;
She embraces him.
So, by being too curst, God will send you no horns.
The little dogs and all, Tray, Blanch, and
Enter Jessica
these princely suitors that are already come?
Now you talk of a sheet of paper, I remember a
Then turn your forces from this paltry siege
Yes, if you love me, sir.
Is that the chain you promised me to-day?
We have as many friends as enemies.
As far as land will let me, by your side.
o'er his part; for the short and the long is, our
smooth; so that, having neither the voice nor the
He cannot live, I hope; and must not die
I fear he will indeed: well, let him have them:
What then, sir?
How may likeness made in crimes,
All may be well.
May be a precedent and witness good
Ay, but not rough enough.
In what you please: I'll do what I can.
Go off; I discard you: let me enjoy my private: go
that will use the devil himself with courtesy:
I know not which pleases me better, that my husband
Good arms, strong joints, true swords; and,
O pity, pity, gentle heaven, pity!
Storm still
Strike on the tinder, ho!
That o'er the green corn-field did pass
That can torment him much and hold him long,
Still growing in a majesty and pomp, the which
Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops.
Upon his honour'd finger, to attain
No.
Like rivers of remorse and innocency.
From plume-pluck'd Richard; who with willing soul
pridge, I think in my very conscience he is as
Alarums, excursions. Enter the BASTARD, with AUSTRIA'S head
I have taught him, even as one would say precisely,
Since you to non-regardance cast my faith,
And, for my love, I pray you wrong me not.
Wear prayer-books in my pocket, look demurely,
prince and Claudio, as,--in love of your brother's
Think me for the man I am, necessity
Thou hast finish'd joy and moan:
At length her grace rose, and with modest paces
Let every feeble rumour shake your hearts!
taught to find me? The search, sir, was profitable;
That writes them all alike: and so of men.
Exit CATESBY
Caesar's, to him I say, that Brutus' love to Caesar
Think of this life; but, for my single self,
Her length of sickness, with what else more serious
O, she tore the letter into a thousand halfpence;
his new doublet before Easter? with another, for
It was not given me, nor I did not buy it.
Wrapp'd in sweet clothes, rings put upon his fingers,
The Lion shakes Thisbe's mantle, and exit
With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino;
No richer than his honour: how he glisters
Found there rich jewels; recover'd her, and placed her
The same, sir.
This proffer is absurd and reasonless.
A proof of strength she could not publish more,
I do not know you so good a man as myself: so
Exit procession, and then a great flourish of trumpets
Twice being  [by the people chosen]  censor,
A most unnoble swerving.
He attendeth here hard by,
And if thy sons were ever dear to thee,
Thou shalt be heavily punished.
To come near.
Brown, madam: and her forehead
What brings you here to court so hastily?
Thou art no soldier.
Lord of our presence, Angiers, and of you.
Was not that Cassio parted from my wife?
We are hither come to offer you our service.
A rendezvous, a home to fly unto.
And freely urge against me.
To boot, and boot!
By my troth, my lord, I cannot tell what to think
Thou shouldst not have been old till thou hadst
Why, then, I care not for thee.
The trumpets show the emperor is at hand.
It well may serve
Topple down headlong.
Melodious birds sing madrigals--
Bars me the right of voluntary choosing:
more. Adieu, trusty Pompey. 'Bless you, friar.
Exit EMILIA
With the ancient of war on our proceedings.
And tamed the king, and made the dauphin stoop;
Now, good my lord, give me the scope of justice
And go we, lords, to put in practise that
If she do frown, 'tis not in hate of you,
I am as I have spoken.
Adieu, good Sir Hugh.
A hundred thousand rebels die in this:
Marry, amen!
Whatever shall become of Michael Cassio,
[To BERTRAM]  These things shall be done, sir.
Fie, you confine yourself most unreasonably: come,
Unthread the rude eye of rebellion
If I would yield him my virginity,
and a good housekeeper goes as fairly as to say a
you use him kindly? He will line your apron with gold.
These flowers are like the pleasures of the world;
Exeunt with CAESAR's body
[Aside]  If 'twere a substance, you would, sure,
Thou god of this great vast, rebuke these surges,
I heard thee say, and vauntingly thou spakest it
Castiliano vulgo! for here comes Sir Andrew Agueface.
Come, tie his body to my horse's tail;
both parts, thou borest thy ass on thy back o'er
Orsino, this is that Antonio
SCENE IV. Before GLOUCESTER's castle. KENT in the stocks.
I will preserve myself: and am bethought
Every good hap to you that chances here:
SCENE II. Bury St. Edmund's. A room of state.
For this care of Tamora,
Alas, poor lady!
and lie under Mount Pelion. Well, I will find you
To LADY ANNE
can.
[Aside]	O noble strain!
What name, sir?
And will she yet debase her eyes on me,
Enter ROSALIND for Ganymede, CELIA for Aliena, and TOUCHSTONE
Poor Tom's a-cold.
Re-enter the Lords, Senators,  and c
Enter BENEDICK
An outward honour for an inward toil;
Hold up before him?
And set upon our boasting enemy.
As it doth well appear unto our state--
O good Sir Toby, hold! here come the officers.
And as imagination bodies forth
Assail them with the army of the king.
Her body sleeps in Capel's monument,
Well, then, no more but this: go, gentle Catesby,
Lies festering in his shroud; where, as they say,
SCENE I. KING JOHN'S palace.
wot of.' He makes me no more ado, but whips me out
The ground indeed is tawny.
Then, dear my liege, mine honour let me try;
Like to the senators of the antique Rome,
The singing masons building roofs of gold,
[Roaring]  Oh--
Let me persuade you take a better course.
Except some petty towns of no import:
Know'st thou the way to Dover?
And should he doubt it, as no doubt he doth,
And all goes worse than I have power to tell.
Why, the enemy is loud; you hear him all night.
So well as soft and tender flattery.
Have laid this woe here. O, 'tis pregnant, pregnant!
Did push it out of farther question.
'Fair' in 'all hail' is foul, as I conceive.
provocation.
To FERDINAND
So holy writ in babes hath judgment shown,
From out the state of hellish misery!
Seems to cry out, 'How shall that Claribel
Alexander Iden, that's my name;
Wait you on him, I charge you, as becomes,
And told me I had turn'd the wrong side out:
you stolen his? or both? pray, what's the news?
An act that very chance doth throw upon him--
To the lascivious pleasing of a lute.
Come, Dromio, come, these jests are out of season;
But what of this? are we not all in love?
Which is as dry as the remainder biscuit
Till it o'er-run the stew; laws for all faults,
Take Hereford's rights away, and take from Time
two tribunes:
If it be so,
And hoist thee up to the shouting plebeians:
RICHARD
Though far more cause, yet much less spirit to curse
points in my target, thus.
a'leven-pence farthing better: most sweet gardon! I
Against my soul's pure truth why labour you
[Aside]          O, 'tis too true!
Exit
Nor either cares for him.
Health shall live free and sickness freely die.
And, Benedick, love on; I will requite thee,
BERTRAM gives a ring
Indeed, that is out o' the air.
Call forth my household servants: let's to-night
Grew shameless-desperate; open'd, in despite
What are thy rents? what are thy comings in?
About surrender up of Aquitaine
I will not charm my tongue; I am bound to speak:
Come, cordial and not poison, go with me
The chariest maid is prodigal enough,
I cannot make you what amends I would,
My widow says, thus she conceives her tale.
As now it coldly stands, when first I woo'd her!
O the gods!
Rather than die at once!--taught me to shift
And yet too good to be your concubine.
a beast. You were also, Jupiter, a swan for the love
In that nook-shotten isle of Albion.
Lord Cromwell of Wingfield, Lord Furnival of Sheffield,
Come to what is important in't: I forgive you the praise.
Though chance of war hath wrought this change of cheer,
Would not a pair of these have bred, sir?
A woman, naturally born to fears;
Knight of his train, to trace the forests wild;
heels and your heart both in an instant.
But I can give the loser leave to chide.
Or felt the flatteries that grow upon it!
No, to the dignity and height of honour
terms, as I may: and that's the humour of it.
Here, my lord, in readiness.
But she'll not stumble.
Where you with Silvia may confer at large;
Enter ARIEL, invisible, playing solemn music
That I might sing it, madam, to a tune.
And in conclusion wins the king from her,
And yet no man like he doth grieve my heart.
Until I see the ring.
So please you, madam,
Unless it were a bloody murderer,
Peace, sister, peace!
Scarce blood enough in all their sickly veins
That die unmarried, ere they can behold
I would he had continued to his country
From whence you have them. You are jealous now
Comes rushing on this woeful land at once!
Too little care of this! Take physic, pomp;
Or pack to their old playfellows: there, I take it,
That I may swear beauty doth beauty lack,
When dying clouds contend with growing light,
When he perceives the envious clouds are bent
How they affect the house and claim of York.
You must know,
And here will rest me.
Here in the streets, desperate of shame and state,
After some respite will return to Calais;
And every lovely organ of her life
Had thy brethren here, their lives and thine
Thou told'st me thou didst hold him in thy hate.
We do; and long to know each other worse.
Heavens make a star of him! Yet there, my queen,
Most like this dreadful night,
in the fool that uses it. Go, make you ready.
Mistake no more: I am not Licio,
Have now the fatal object in my eye
[Aside to ANTONIO]  The next advantage
Catesby hath sounded Hastings in our business,
On all deservers. From hence to Inverness,
How now, thou core of envy!
Exit Murderer
When living blood doth in these temples beat,
You have broke it, cousin: and, by my life, you
At gilded butterflies, and hear poor rogues
Enter TROILUS and ULYSSES, at a distance; after them, THERSITES
Now sways it that way, like the selfsame sea
How novelty may move, and parts with person,
SCENE II. Before the council-chamber. Pursuivants, Pages,  and c.
To forfeit all your goods, lands, tenements,
To Edmund Langley, Edward the Third's fifth son.
sun.
Now, darting Parthia, art thou struck; and now
For hear her but exampled by herself:
Swift-winged with desire to get a grave,
By God, thou hast deceived me, Lancaster;
big enough for him otherwise he might put on a hat,
Without me, as within me; not imagined, felt.
If life did ride upon a dial's point,
is not show his face.
Be known when 'tis brought forth.
The worst is this, that, at so slender warning,
To whom we all rest generally beholding.
Did he so often lodge in open field,
Twice treble shame on Angelo,
Well, sit you out: go home, Biron: adieu.
Now the condition.
word for two pence that you are no fool.
Can lay to bed for ever; whiles you, doing thus,
In entertainment to my princely queen.
I go.
Well, daughter, and you gentle-women all,
I spoke with some of the sailors that escaped the wreck.
O, these deliberate fools! when they do choose,
My earnest-gaping sight of thy land's view,
Whither away, or where is thy abode?
Now, by my modesty, a goodly broker!
My rightful hand in a well-hallow'd cause.
to wars with the women!
What noise is this? Give me my long sword, ho!
That malice was a great and grievous sin;
Fellow, I know thee.
By cock and pie, you shall not choose, sir! come, come.
Beg at the gates, like Tarquin and his queen.
[Aside to CARDINAL]  Faith, holy uncle, would
Speak.
Sir, my lord would instantly speak with you.
Whom with all praise I point at, saw him fight,
With all good speed at Plashy visit me.
You say not right, old man.
You must forsake this room, and go with us:
Antony yet.
honourable virtues.
What simpleness is this! I come, I come!
wise man among twenty that will praise himself.
let us call thee devil!
Be wisely definite; nor i' the appetite;
Exeunt
I think you are all mated or stark mad.
Where I may have fruition of her love.
Love use Reason for his physician, he admits him
Wounded it is, but with the eyes of a lady.
While he himself keeps in the cold field?
I never spake with her, saw her, nor heard from her,
To fit your fancies to your father's will;
Thanks you for this great care: I stood i' the level
The keys of all the posterns: please your highness
and hiding mine honour in my necessity, am fain to
'Tis like she comes to speak of Cassio's death.--
Exit
I do not think it good.
Rude ragged nurse, old sullen playfellow
Pardon old Gower,--this longs the text.
I tell thee, my master is become a hot lover.
You have not sought her help, of whose soft grace
The lees and dregs of a flat tamed piece;
Where is the fellow?
Pardon me, dear madam;
me to 't. But they say the duke will be here
The cost that did conclude it.
Was ever feather so lightly blown to and fro as this
And, of so great a favour growing proud,
But, if you were the devil, you are fair.
Pray God she prove not masculine ere long,
How now! is Jack Cade slain?
Let me love him for that, and do you love him
What valour were it, when a cur doth grin,
What is your genitive case plural, William?
Alas! good Kate, I will not burden thee;
challenger's youth I would fain dissuade him, but he
Beyond a common joy, and set it down
Against your yet ungalled estimation
That in the way of loyalty and truth
False accusation blush and tyranny
Was parmaceti for an inward bruise;
And sauced our broths, as Juno had been sick
My lord, I have from Oxford sent to London
One, Kate, that you must kiss, and be acquainted with.
No, nor your manhood that durst make you stay.
Darkness and devils!
thee, or in bastinado, or in steel; I will bandy
Proud, disobedient, stubborn, lacking duty,
never drunk wine afore will go near to remove his
Liberty! Freedom! Tyranny is dead!
No.
Yet every mother breeds not sons alike:
My thoughts aim at a further matter; I
Come, come;
But that one half which is unsatisfied,
That when the sea was calm all boats alike
ACT I
Who pour their bounty on her; and her gain
Lo, as at English feasts, so I regreet
O, let us yet be merciful.
That happiness and prime can happy call:
Striving to make an ugly deed look fair:
Sir, I shall tell you. With a kind of smile,
yet, had he mistook him and sent to me, I should
I'll show't the king and undertake to be
Were all the wealth I have shut up in thee,
To mount aloft with thy imperial mistress,
Mistress, it is: sweet lady, entertain him
Let thy song be love: this love will undo us all.
sought for, in the great chamber.
Alarums. They fight. EDMUND falls
Enter FASTOLFE
Speak suddenly, my lords, are we all friends?
SCENE IV. Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
Now, my sweet guardian! Hark, a word with you.
Notice to Escalus and Angelo,
That my ability may undergo
O, shall I say, I thank you, gentle wife?
In complete glory she reveal'd herself;
I have disclaim'd sir Robert and my land;
Have you no countermand for Claudio yet,
Who by repentance is not satisfied
Some word there was, worser than Tybalt's death,
You shall have letters from me to my son
In fine, delivers me to fill the time,
Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works:
Then let the pebbles on the hungry beach
This, my last boon, give me,
Nor God, nor I, delights in perjured men.
O my good lord, you were the first that found me!
Are stronger than mine eyes.
I should so.
Although thy breath be rude.
horse-stealer, but for his verity in love, I do
the Welshman with my cheese, an Irishman with my
that decerns you nearly.
It is not possible, it cannot be,
O woe! O woful, woful, woful day!
Do prophesy upon it dangerously:
Enter ARIEL
Who is lost too: take your patience to you,
This is nothing, fool.
I'll to my rest.
Against the Scot, who will make road upon us
The rebels are in Southwark; fly, my lord!
And ever may your highness yoke together,
And all the men and women merely players:
She hath prevented me. Here, Signior Tranio.
love thy husband, look to thy servants, cherish thy
Thou ever young, fresh, loved and delicate wooer,
Wear thy good rapier bare, and put it home:
And, ten to one, old Joan had not gone out.
That only like a gulf it did remain
Have I not here the best cards for the game,
Shall nothing benefit your knowledge, nor
To make me slave to it; and for your sake
Seeing ARTHUR
Attend your ladyship!
Humbly complaining to her deity
ass will not mend his pace with beating; and, when
I will attend the queen.
It is merely a lust of the blood and a permission of
Which I shall give away immediately.
Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
These three,
Yes, my good lord, I'll follow presently.
SCENE III. Another part of the field.
I dare, and do defy thee for a villain.
but looked big and spit at him, he'ld have run.
If you think fit, or that it may be done,
Who, like a foul and ugly witch, doth limp
Which in the bluster of thy wrath must fall
He loved me--O false wench!--Give't me again.
In anger, Juno-like. Come, come, come.
Go to, you're a dry fool; I'll no more of you:
fine and recovery, he will never, I think, in the
What things in the world canst thou nearest compare
I will be patient.
Enter DERBY to RICHMOND in his tent, Lords and others attending
lord the king, thy royal husband: the pretence
The petty difference, we yet not know.
By the eighth hour: is that the uttermost?
And so she doth, cousin.
Why, my pretty youth?
As though she bid me stay by her a week:
The king, the king!
set him clear. How fairly this lord strives to
turn the sun to ice with fanning in his face with a
From such a noble rate; but my chief care
Expose thyself to feel what wretches feel,
To give the onset to thy good advice.
The high promotion of his grace of Canterbury;
And nought esteems my aged eloquence:
And when I have stol'n upon these sons-in-law,
A most poor issue?
Now for ourself and for this time of meeting:
Exeunt PISTOL, and French Soldier
to perform it.
one of our souls! He may have mercy upon mine; but
Let me not hinder, Cassius, your desires;
I see my son Antipholus and Dromio.
Poor heart, adieu! I pity thy complaining.
That dost not bite so nigh
Jacks; and if I cannot, I'll find those that shall.
No man alive can love in such a sort
Exeunt all the Commoners
That thou no more shalt see this knack, as never
war, and in the derivation of my birth, and in
Where are your mess of sons to back you now?
much honour, that thou wert not with me in this sweet
DON
My major vow lies here, this I'll obey.
I come to woo ladies, I fright them. But, in faith,
This is the day wherein I wish'd to fall
His guilt should be but idly posted over,
I thank you, sir: and, pray you, tell me this:
Where be the bending peers that flatter'd thee?
understandings for thy cases and the numbers of the
For chair and dukedom, throne and kingdom say;
And from her bosom took the enemy's point,
Though we have spent our harvest of this king,
To me she's married, not unto my clothes:
'Tis in my memory lock'd,
girl; and therefore welcome the sour cup of
Then I must be thy lady: but I know
Have made the ground my bed. I should be sick,
Yea, though thou do demand a prisoner,
he would meet her, as he was appointed, next morning
I care not if thou dost for me as much.
with Barnardine's head: I will give him a present
hast feigned him a worthy fellow.
What man art thou that thus bescreen'd in night
To seek the light of truth; while truth the while
So soon as I can win the offended king,
I am directed by you.
That's as much as to say, such a case as yours
Which I in sufferance heartily will rejoice,
Exeunt
Merchant of Syracuse, plead no more;
Converses apart with FERDINAND, and delivers him a paper
May be, he hears the king
O, come, Ventidius,
So doth my heart misgive me, in these conflicts
They shall be married to-morrow, and I will bid the
We'll put thee down, 'gainst whom these arms we bear,
Enter DESDEMONA, EMILIA, and Clown
You sin against
Of something nearly that concerns yourselves.
Old grandsire Priam seeks.'
Exit
Only convey me where thou art commanded.
That wails her absence?
But, ass, I'll take that burthen from your back,
If her liquor be good, she shall: if she will not, I
Exit, led out forcibly
Exit an Attendant
Hold, take thou this, my sweet, and give me thine,
I have seen and heard of; for your voices have
To more approved service and desert.
Re-enter Servants
Enter EXETER, BEDFORD, and WESTMORELAND
It is your grace's pleasure to commend;
Exit Doctor
Why, this hath not a finger's dignity:
They kill him
Tell me, Apollo, for thy Daphne's love,
A fasting tiger safer by the tooth,
To think I shall lack friends? Secure thy heart;
love her, I am a Jew. I will go get her picture.
That o'er the files and musters of the war
Tut! I have the best armour of the world. Would it were day!
tell thee how the prince, Claudio and my master,
shoulders; no sighs but of my breathing; no tears
Alarum: excursions. Enter TALBOT led by a Servant
Nay, but his jesting spirit; which is now crept into
How now, my lord! what hap? what hope of good?
I gave thee life and rescued thee from death.
O, look, Titinius, look, the villains fly!
whom Cominius the general is gone, with one part of
You have, I know, petition'd all the gods
Sun, hide thy beams! Timon hath done his reign.
If not, to hide what I have said to thee,
The general is content to spare thee yet;
To the inheritance of Fortinbras,
Go thy ways, I begin to be aweary of thee; and I
For thine own future safety.
Caesar, I will:
For mine own part,
this can sack and drinking do. A murrain on
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  When he was made a shriver,
This 'once again,' but that your highness pleased,
Master's-Mate	And so much shall you give, or off goes yours.
She, on his left side, craving aid for Henry,
I hope so.
[Aside]  These are kind creatures. Gods, what lies
The world's great snare uncaught?
Exit
O Lord, sir! Nay, put me to't, I warrant you.
Redeem from broking pawn the blemish'd crown,
For that will physic the great Myrmidon
But with much forcing of his disposition.
We charge you, that you have contrived to take
Did see man die! scarce ever look'd on blood,
And all my study be to no effect?
The book of his good acts, whence men have read
When thou didst bower the spirit of a fiend
I have not sought the day of this dislike.
For she is with me: no, when light-wing'd toys
A friend.
There is some strange misprision in the princes.
And in our coronation take your place.
You are no maiden, but a monument:
And I in better state than e'er I was.
Come on, sir.
We make him lord of. Call the Lady Constance;
Bare-headed plodded by my foot-cloth mule
The livelong day, with patient expectation,
habit, but your words show you a madman. Why, sir,
Lies mocking our designs: with him Patroclus
Who can accuse me? wherein am I guilty?
Whither so late?
I am maim'd for ever. Help, ho! murder! murder!
And here my naked breast; within, a heart
Who thrives and who declines; side factions
Now you are heir, therefore enjoy it now:
By this, had thought been past. Alive or dead?
Madam, there is at the gate a young gentleman much
bond-slave?
If I go to him, with my armed fist I'll pash him o'er the face.
He'll wrest the sense and hold us here all day:
Hadst thou done so,
I know not where to turn: O, welcome home:
Henceforth my wooing mind shall be express'd
We'll fit the kid-fox with a pennyworth.
on his sinister cheek; it was this very sword
Why, alas, what's the matter?
Unpeg the basket on the house's top.
'Twixt two extremes of passion, joy and grief,
The world, who of itself is peised well,
And by those fearful objects to prepare
So, let her rest: and, madam, list to me;
Go to your rest; at night we'll feast together:
By this one bloody trial of sharp war.
Thou fall'st a blessed martyr! Serve the king;
There was a man--
'Item: She is proud.'
Dost thou affect her, Claudio?
And find no cheque? Let us, my liege, to arms:
But half an hour!
Is it not more than shame to shame it so?
Marry, so it doth appear
So that, in these ten thousand they have lost,
Little knows this love in me:
And the mute wonder lurketh in men's ears,
What's the matter?
Myself the man i' the moon do seem to be.
as well drawn as his; no less young, more strong,
Will even weigh, and both as light as tales.
He'll grant the tribute, send the arrearages,
Of your dear mother England, blush for shame;
But 'twould offend him; and in his offence
By the o'ergrowth of some complexion,
It hath in solemn synods been decreed
Enter TIMON and Attendants
slower; and, as I say, retire with me to my
In Hermia's love I yield you up my part;
See how the surly Warwick mans the wall!
It is impossible that ever Rome
To flaming youth let virtue be as wax,
That I did suit me all points like a man?
To love, to wealth, to pomp, I pine and die;
Enthroned i' the market-place, did sit alone,
Stabbing him
Enter OTHELLO, IAGO, and Attendants with torches
I urged you further; then you scratch'd your head,
tears in's eyes. Pray you, no more.
did; I am to do a good turn for them. Let the king
to prison, Pompey?
The reformation of our travell'd gallants,
I'll reconcile me to Polixenes,
If that our noble father be alive?
Ah, in good sadness, is he; and talks of the basket
turquoise; I had it of Leah when I was a bachelor:
Great Mars, I put myself into thy file:
Methinks my moiety, north from Burton here,
Nay, it is possible enough to judgment:
If we be conquer'd, let men conquer us,
The army marvell'd at it, and, in the last,
Within an hour, and pacing through the forest,
What's the unkindest tide?
my heart will be blown up by the root.
Till thou art here aloft, or I below:
Prithee, listen well;
Then thus for you, my lord: it stands agreed,
But I should think of shallows and of flats,
Proclaim an enshield beauty ten times louder
fence with his own shadow: if I should marry him, I
You have received your griefs; nor are they such
And rather muse than ask why I entreat you,
In following him, I follow but myself;
Repair to Pompey's porch, where you shall find us.
Methought all his senses were lock'd in his eye,
Exit
Although she lave them hourly in the flood.
In the secret parts of fortune? O, most true; she
All out of work and cold for action!
And burns me up with flames that tears would quench.
But I might master it: in faith, I lie;
A mistress's command. Wear this; spare speech;
Most fortunately: he hath achieved a maid
Dost thou say so?
after his desert, and who should 'scape whipping?
Which each to other hath so strongly sworn.
And, madam,
Your use and counsel, we shall send for you.
Would he were here, my lord! for he indeed
To entertain your highness and your empress.
Hereafter time, for time past wrong'd by thee.
And looks not on his evils: is not this true?
Down therefore and beg mercy of the duke.
Two ships from far making amain to us,
CASSIO and RODERIGO are borne off
Re-enter FLAVIUS, with the casket
For this was of much length,--the vile conclusion
Beaufort's red sparkling eyes blab his heart's malice,
This is dear mercy, and thou seest it not.
so, so, so. We'll go to supper i' he morning. So, so, so.
Such was the very armour he had on
Go with me. Once more, new servant, welcome:
However this may gall him with some cheque,
Peace, peace! see further; he eyes us not; forbear;
There is the playhouse now, there must you sit:
Take, O, take those lips away,
I must be gone.
Call in the letters patent that he hath
that: heaven knows what she has known.
Or if you like elsewhere, do it by stealth;
card, or equivocation will undo us. By the Lord,
No more to the crown but that. Lo, who comes here?
Hath it not, boy?
I'll talk a word with this same learned Theban.
Your worth is very dear in my regard.
discretion; and the fox carries the goose.
Some hangman must put on my shroud and lay me
So well thy words become thee as thy wounds;
Warwick is chancellor and the lord of Calais;
Thy news Boyet?
You are like one that superstitiously
'tis not a maid, for she hath had gossips; yet 'tis
And hereabouts he dwells,--which late I noted
What, shall we toward the Tower? the day is spent.
In your waking shall be shown:
My lord, we always have confess'd it.
And to make us no better thought of, a little help
cut of a certain courtier's beard: he sent me word,
And you recount your sorrows to a stone.
Ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat
Our prisoners with the sword. But since the gods
Judge when you hear. But, soft! what nymphs are these?
Golden quoifs and stomachers,
To nature none more bound; his training such,
We'll teach you--
palaces, treason; and the bond cracked 'twixt son
now art thou sociable, now art thou Romeo; now art
Dark night, that from the eye his function takes,
Is like a good thing, being often read,
us friends; I will pursue the amity.
Have you yourselves, Somerset, Buckingham,
SCENE II. A prison.
But since that thou canst talk of love so well,
And at the time of my departure thence
I am soldier to, and will abide it with
This noble isle doth want her proper limbs;
But you, Lorenzo, whether I am yours?
I cannot now prove constant to myself,
Ay, and it makes men hate one another.
Is true as steel: leave you your power to draw,
That we our largest bounty may extend
This sway of motion, this Commodity,
Guard her till Caesar come.
Where's my fool, ho? I think the world's asleep.
Because methinks that she loved you as well
The man grows mad: away with him! Come, come, sir.
Re-enter SUFFOLK and WARWICK, with their weapons drawn
A very fresh-fish here--fie, fie, fie upon
The Tomb of the ANDRONICI appearing; the Tribunes  and Senators aloft. Enter, below, from one side,  SATURNINUS and his Followers; and, from the other side, BASSIANUS and his Followers; with drum and colours
If Venus or her son, as thou dost know,
Is he found guilty?
Exeunt
The help of heaven we count the act of men.
Who, I? why, he'll answer nobody; he professes not
sorcerer, that by his cunning hath cheated me of the island.
I will obey thee. Helicanus!
Therefore make haste. I must go write again
How much they do to import, you would make haste.
Peace!
cap-a-pe; and one that will either push on or pluck
SCENE I. A church.
Accept my thankfulness.
Was a deep envious one.
Exit DIOMEDES
What, are you chafed?
Where dwell you, pretty youth?
Something of me, or what concerns me: pray you,--
I am an officer of state, and come
It is backed like a weasel.
Friends am I with you all and love you all,
Quoth my master:
Give thee quick conduct.
'Tis Banquo's then.
And fortune play upon thy prosperous helm,
Not I, my lord; sith true nobility
Yes, my good lord,
And all probation will make up full clear,
With that same weak wind which enkindled it.
But welcome, as you are. What shall we do?
That nature makes. You see, sweet maid, we marry
Pray heaven he prove so, when you come to him!
They'll roar him in again. Tullus Aufidius,
How much salt water thrown away in waste,
Indeed, there is Fortune too hard for Nature, when
Fear not, my lord, I'll play the orator
Like Niobe, all tears:--why she, even she--
A very valiant Briton and a good,
Your weeping sister is no wife of mine,
think well to carry this as you may, the doubleness
Farewell to your worship.
Very like; one of them
I, like a child, will go by thy direction.
Seek through your camp to find you.
And though myself have been an idle truant,
DON
Why, then, God forgive me!
O noble weakness!
I cannot name the disease; and it is caught
And therefore comes my brother Montague.
For, to yourself, what you do know, you must.
Methinks you are too much of late i' the frown.
Dost thou here lie!
She turns to favour and to prettiness.
world he is: if I find a hole in his coat, I will
you seem to be? Can you think to blow out the
Even daughter, welcome, in no less degree.
Was there ever man had such luck! when I kissed the
to you, to set her before your eyes tomorrow human
But with these nails I'll pluck out these false eyes
The food of thy abused father's wrath!
'tis known I am a pretty piece of flesh.
Upon my life, my lord, I'll under-take it;
That Margaret your queen and my son Edward
There are my keys. But wherefore should I go?
Many for many virtues excellent,
An armour all of gold; it was a king's.
Preys on the issue of his mother's body,
Stoop, I say;
But do you remember? 'Madam, why laugh you at such
But, as 'tis,
And I am I, howe'er I was begot.
Exeunt
mouth too.
As this ingrate and canker'd Bolingbroke.
She creeps:
Myself in person will straight follow you.
of harmony.
So, now you're fairly seated. Gentlemen,
I hope better.
And that which most with you should safe my going,
Is by a newer object quite forgotten.
But goers backward.
Nay, answer, if you can: the Frenchmen are our
Hold you the watch to-night?
The senator shall bear contempt hereditary,
To doubt the equivocation of the fiend
serve me! Why should his mistress, who was made by
SCENE I. Bangor. The Archdeacon's house.
'Gainst my captivity. Hail, brave friend!
serves a bad woman; whose house, sir, was, as they
Mine ears, that heard her flattery; nor my heart,
The little strength that I have, I would it were with you.
Only I carry winged time
And well said too; for who shall go about
To throw a perfume on the violet,
Than lady, ladies, woman; from every one
Pucelle hath bravely play'd her part in this,
If it be proved against an alien
In this hot trial, more than we of France;
By'r lakin, a parlous fear.
Beats in this hollow prison of my flesh,
Enter a Messenger
Most absolute lord,
Experience is by industry achieved
To know from whence we are.
He is, my lord, an hour ago.
As woman's love.
apparel fits your thief.
Now let the general trumpet blow his blast,
But hearts for the event.
And saw the lion's shadow ere himself
Am I the master here, or you? go to.
Exit
When that the sleeping man should stir; for 'tis
Was lineal of the Lady Ermengare,
Enter his chamber, view his breathless corpse,
a wherefore.
'Faith, some certain dregs of conscience are yet
I will not taint my mouth with.
The sum of all our answer is but this:
Jesters do oft prove prophets.
Glittering in golden coats, like images;
Speak to me:
Alas, sir, are you here? things that love night
No, my good lord; he speaks the common tongue,
Enter the KING HENRY VIII and DOCTOR BUTTS at a window above
God's blessing on your beard!
No rest be interposer 'twixt us twain.
To the disposing of it nought rebell'd.
For whose dear sake thou didst then rend thy faith
Pageants and sights of honour.
And, for myself, most part of all this night,
Sirrah, or you must fight, or else be hang'd.
Than this; that nothing do I see in you,
Exposed this paragon to the fearful usage,
Exit
Den it sall also content me.
So he doth you, my lord; and said this other day you
Why, Marcus, so she is.
SCENE III. A park near the palace.
come I to my mother: O, that she could speak now
supper that night.
[Standing forth]  What says my general?
foul hill, my master riding behind my mistress,--
his rest to do more exploits with his mace than a
What! has your king married the Lady Grey!
Heaven lay not my transgression to my charge!
Which serves as paste and cover to our bones.
to lie as to live chastely. Therefore, go back.
Nor me, so I were one.
As Phaethon would whip you to the west,
descend; my chambers are honourable: fie! privacy?
Beyond all manner of so much I love you.
What effects, my lord? She will sit you, you heard
Ere break the smallest parcel of this vow.
If dere be one or two, I shall make-a the turd.
This is the foul fiend Flibbertigibbet: he begins
Upon their first lord's neck. But tell me true--
I can scarce speak to thee; thou'lt not believe
Varro's Servant	How dost, fool?
[Within]  Mistress Ford, Mistress Ford! here's
I will see you hanged, like clotpoles, ere I come
We will, in France, by God's grace, play a set
Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh;
your pardon;
That ever yet they heard.
ACT III
No; we shall ne'er win at that sport, and stake down.
write, pen; for I am for whole volumes in folio.
Methought you said
By being in his eye. Most gracious duke,
And bid thee battle, Edward, if thou darest.
often give us soldiers the lie: but we pay them for
base for a soldier to love, so am I in love with a
And suffer'd him to go displeased away;
This shouldering of each other in the court,
Nay, but hear you, goodman delver,--
Put into parts, doth keep in one consent,
No, no.
To bring them to that prospect: damn them then,
Before the always wind-obeying deep
Before we parted. I have made bold, Iago,
Even he, your wife, this lady, and myself,
What hath been cannot be: who ever strove
Enter BARDOLPH
Well, what is it? is it within reason and compass?
The numbers true; and, were the numbering too,
Yet nature might have made me as these are,
Then lend the eye a terrible aspect;
Benedicite!
When didst thou sleep when such a deed was done?
The substance of my praise doth wrong this shadow
With this there grows
bastard children than war's a destroyer of men.
The best and truest;
by the salt rheum that ran between France and it.
As we were sharing, some six or seven fresh men set upon us--
The miserable change now at my end
And may you prove, sir, master of your art!
That is thy means to live. Do thou but think
And overmuch consumed his royal person:
Exeunt
Being scarce made up,
Of such a merry, nimble, stirring spirit,
You would abate the strength of your displeasure.
I remember.
Flower as she was, deflowered by him.
Give us a prince of blood, a son of Priam,
All sorts of hearts; yea, from the glass-faced flatterer
Sackerson loose twenty times, and have taken him by
to him shortly as bitter as coloquintida. She must
differences, of very soft society and great showing:
Enter GLOUCESTER, with his Serving-men in blue coats
Hear me, my liege:
The prime man of the state? I pray you, tell me,
is to be a counterfeit; for he is but the
Either your unparagoned mistress is dead, or she's
Time is their master, and, when they see time,
A strange invisible perfume hits the sense
Since they do better thee in their command.
The tongues o' the common mouth: I do despise them;
You shall not have it, Diomed; faith, you shall not;
that's coming toward him.
Enter BEATRICE
Fair princess, welcome to the court of Navarre.
Is all afraid to govern thee near him;
My lord. Griffith, farewell. Nay, Patience,
Whilst your great goodness, out of holy pity,
She made good view of me; indeed, so much,
Who ever would have thought it? Romeo!
Enter LYSIMACHUS
I shall attend your leisure: but make haste;
Whose beam stands sure, whose rightful cause prevails.
Then here is a supplication for you. And when you
Your love says, like an honest gentleman, and a
and a quiet sword; by the means whereof a' breaks
Assure yourself, after our ship did split,
Now Margaret's curse is fall'n upon our heads,
My Lord of Gloucester, I have too long borne
The consequence is then thy jealous fits
ANTIPHOLUS
One day too late, I fear me, noble lord,
Knights,
Then sit we down, and let us all consult.
Nor did not with unbashful forehead woo
I have no mind of feasting forth to-night:
SCENE IV. London. The palace.
Tearing the Thracian singer in their rage.'
Striving to better, oft we mar what's well.
Whose daughter, as we hear, the Earl of March
Then thus I thump it down.
Marry, we'll search.
and already appearing in the blossoms of their fortune.
That I myself was to myself not mine,
As then your force did. Take that life, beseech you,
An honourable murderer, if you will;
Because thy father Henry did usurp;
Ay, marry, must you; for you must understand he goes
The danger formerly by me rehearsed.
Go back again, thou slave, and fetch him home.
And look to have it yielded with all willingness.
ever was known in the commonwealth.
Hearing thy mildness praised in every town,
The lethargy must have his quiet course:
youth, strength, skill and wrath can furnish man withal.
Well, I conceive.
Myself hath often over-heard them say,
We give thee up our guiltless blood to drink.
Therefore I do advise you, take this note:
Even that, I hope, which pleaseth God above,
Medea gather'd the enchanted herbs
That therefore such a writ be sued against you;
Come hither, come hither, come hither:
Have by some surgeon, Shylock, on your charge,
PROSPERO and ARIEL remain invisible. Enter CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and TRINCULO, all wet
At sea! what mother?
Of blind forgetfulness and dark oblivion.
With him his bondman, all as mad as he--
open thy affair.
no truth in your report. When was it she last walked?
Some that will thank you, making just report
And of it left his son imperial lord.
And fashion'd thee that instrument of ill,
Enter, from one side, AENEAS, and Servant with a  torch; from the other, PARIS, DEIPHOBUS, ANTENOR, DIOMEDES, and others, with torches
They are polluted offerings, more abhorr'd
Then call we this the field of Agincourt,
is Thisby's cue: she is to enter now, and I am to
He bears too great a mind. But this same day
I thank you for your wish, and am well pleased
Or I, I promise thee.
No, not the expulsion of the Tarquins.
Is she not down so late, or up so early?
And now and then an ample tear trill'd down
I shall be reconciled to him again.
Turk Gregory never did such deeds in arms as I have
On forfeit of my hands, my head, my heart:
for the liquor is not earthly.
And where the offence is let the great axe fall.
to-morrow. 'Sblood,'twas time to counterfeit, or
How parted he with thee? and when shalt thou see
Discover that which shall undo the Florentine.
Excellent! Your lordship's a goodly villain. The
The queen, sir, very oft importuned me
love of that colour, methinks Samson had small reason
With mirth in funeral and with dirge in marriage,
Do not say so, Lysander; say not so
cowardly rascals that ran from the battle ha' done
A man of sovereign parts he is esteem'd;
Behold how like a maid she blushes here!
They shake their heads
Under my battlements. Come, you spirits
If I could pray to move, prayers would move me:
Even so; an't please your worship, Brakenbury,
by the heads, dogs and bears by the neck, monkeys by
Once, if he do require our voices, we ought not to deny him.
Do you smell a fault?
In his anointed flesh stick boarish fangs.
Was the hope drunk
bettered expectation than you must expect of me to
Go, Biondello, bid your mistress come to me.
I shall obey, my lord.
He will be found like Brutus, like himself.
crowns of the king carrying my head to him: but
He shall not, Isabel, if you give me love.
And 'tis great pity that the noble Moor
Have with you.
But yet not stay, entreat me how you can.
Be quiet then as men should be,
Thirty-three years have I but gone in travail
But kings and mightiest potentates must die,
It were lost sorrow to wail one that's lost.
Will not confess he owes the malady
not in the contents.
Here, take: the gods out of my misery
That strain again! it had a dying fall:
Soon may I hear and see him!
What Caesar doth, what suitors press to him.
plain-dealing man?
Must fall out with men too: what the declined is
gentlemen: they speak English?
Yea, by mass, that it is.
Whose inward pinches therefore are most strong,
He'll shape his old course in a country new.
What yesternight our council did decree
done this day. I have paid Percy, I have made him sure.
What should they grant? what makes this pretty
Exeunt
At your pleasure.
Hymen hath brought the bride to bed.
There's not the smallest orb which thou behold'st
Being full of supper and distempering draughts,
Some of my mistress' marks upon my shoulders,
The waste is no whit lesser than thy land.
Be resident in men like one another
I swear--
Why, this is a more exquisite song than the other.
A combination and a form indeed,
To build his fortune I will strain a little,
child. We have seen the best of our time:
kind master.
This nor hurts him nor profits you a jot;
A great addition earned in thy death.
For my authority bears of a credent bulk,
Here's France and Burgundy, my noble lord.
But yet, alas, stood I within his grace,
O, if a virgin,
Know you where your are, sir?
Nor stir at nothing till the axe of death
Ceres, most bounteous lady, thy rich leas
How malicious is my fortune, that I must repent to
To Dover.
By what? by any other house or person?
out of my prains what is the name of the other
O, ay; as summer flies are in the shambles,
That seeks his praise more than he fears his peril,
Upon your charter and your city's freedom.
Why say you so? looks he not for supply?
'Item: She will often praise her liquor.'
A saint-like sorrow: no fault could you make,
To the madding of her lord. On her left breast
Well, masters, we hear our charge: let us go sit here
And yet, in faith, thou bear'st thee like a king:
painted blind, with a muffler afore her eyes, to
Proceed to judgment: by my soul I swear
And God defend but still I should stand so,
Caesar, 'tis strucken eight.
Or how far further shall, is warranted
SCENE II. The same.
Beshrew my heart, but I pity the man.
Thou wrong'st it, more than tears, with that report.
Exit Gaoler
What, jealous Oberon! Fairies, skip hence:
Confronted him with self-comparisons,
Farewell all physic: and what follows then?
With other muniments and petty helps
The spirit torments me; Oh!
So soon as you arrive, shall clear that doubt.
Being come to knowledge that there was complaint
In piteous chase; and thus the hairy fool
That I will, by to-morrow dinner-time,
Alas, three of Master Ford's brothers watch the door
In seeming to augment it wastes it? Be advised:
To show the letter that I writ to you.
Exit
Nay, I hope.
This, I presume, will wake him.
'Tis all engaged, some forfeited and gone;
Nay, 'tis for me to be patient; I am in adversity.
Of loss, of slaughter and discomfiture:
Demetrius, thou dost over-ween in all;
O, I must, madam:
The marble pavement closes, he is enter'd
Come, come, we fear the worst; all shall be well.
but my wife, master doctor, is for you altogether.
Of happy holding her.
But that it doth presage some ill event.
That it but mocks reproof.
I have seen nothing.
Slave, I have set my life upon a cast,
For, by your leaves, you shall not stay alone
Success unto our valiant general,
that satisfaction can be none but by pangs of death
Is posted, as the agent of our cardinal,
say they be fled; Germans are honest men.
And to the fire-eyed maid of smoky war
And, lo, the happiness! go, and importune her.
Lead in your ladies, every one: sweet partner,
He was? Why, so! go all which way it will!
Goodly and gallant shall be false and perjured
What says his majesty?
fire, being burnt i' the hand for stealing of sheep.
Sweet Duke of York, our prop to lean upon,
Ruminat,--and so forth. Ah, good old Mantuan! I
If Talbot but survive thy treachery.
Your lordship to accept.
Farewell, fa rewell!
Give me excuse, good madam; I will obey you in every
In passion shook.
Enter a Messenger
man in the city; and though I be but a poor man, I
Ay,
Will pack when it begins to rain,
You must borrow me Gargantua's mouth first: 'tis a
It wearies me; you say it wearies you;
To POLONIUS
Thy sins are visited in this poor child;
word for word without book, and hath all the good
what thou wert, if Fortune thy foe were not, Nature
Fridays. He's not past it yet, and I say to thee,
For wise men say it is the wisest course.
Her faults will ne'er be known,
If these be they, I know not how to wish
To base declension and loathed bigamy
Brutus, my country's friend; know me for Brutus!
Although we fancy not the cardinal,
Under the gods, keep you in awe, which else
Run back and bite, because he was withheld;
Main chance, father, you meant; but I meant Maine,
Surety secure; but modest doubt is call'd
The elder of them, being put to nurse,
all bubukles, and whelks, and knobs, and flames o'
Whose present courage may beat down our foes,
Rome's readiest champions, repose you here in rest,
For whom, and not for Tybalt, Juliet pined.
Obscures the show of evil? In religion,
And confident from foreign purposes,
Fair lords, take leave and stand not to reply.
Pulling out a paper
cruelly. If ever thou beest mine, Kate, as I have a
'This is put forth too truly:' besides, I have stay'd
which is left of him what he is, fetch me to the
That never slept a quiet hour with thee,
come forth. Masters, I charge you, in the prince's
Whate'er thou hear'st or seest, stand all aloof,
What is he more than another?
To see these honours in possession.
In heedfull'st reservation to bestow them,
Would step from this to this? Sense, sure, you have,
Of this post-haste and romage in the land.
Knock off his manacles; bring your prisoner to the king.
I may spur on my journey.
Which I protest against--I am assisted
[Reads]  Till I have no wife I have nothing in France.
the map of my microcosm, follows it that I am known
Will you give horns, chaste lady? do not so.
And make him stoop to the vale. 'Tis wonder
the commonwealth, and turn it, and set a new nap upon it.
In this just suit come I to move your grace.
To PAROLLES
Thou hast robb'd me of this deed: I would revenges,
A murrain on't! I took this for silver.
wagers recorded.
The surge most swoln that met him; his bold head
My household stuff, my field, my barn,
O Cassius, if you could
Pointing at OSWALD
bosom, if ever man went to Arthur's bosom. A' made
forest judge.
Quit their own part, and in obsequious fondness
There is a kind of character in thy life,
To my grief, I am
He that plays the king shall be welcome; his majesty
every man should beat thee: I think thou wast
To throw down Hector than Polyxena:
Sickness is catching: O, were favour so,
And so, his knell is knoll'd.
How, sir?
Whom with a crack'd heart I have sent to Rome,
I have with such provision in mine art
wealth of Windsor Castle.
No, nor to-morrow, not till I please myself.
And make my image but an alehouse sign.
That with the king here resteth in his tent?
How many women saw this child of his?
Sir, sooth to say, you did not dine at home.
Whose vows are, that no bed-right shall be paid
The king is render'd lost.
The self-same gods that arm'd the Queen of Troy
How now! what's the matter? who was here?
Then, nobly, York; 'tis for a crown thou fight'st.
But, lest myself be guilty to self-wrong,
But we shall meet, and break our minds at large.
go
Exit one with GLOUCESTER
did but try us this other day.
I do beseech you, know me.
And do submit me to your highness' mercy.
Whither to go and what to bear with us;
And will employ thee in some service presently.
And passeth by with stiff unbowed knee,
A horse whereon the governor doth ride,
Yes; I do think that you might pardon him,
No epilogue, I pray you; for your play needs no
Did you converse, sir, with this gentlewoman?
I may revolve and ruminate my grief.
You have too courtly a wit for me: I'll rest.
There may as well be amity and life
Horner, for saying that the Duke of York was rightful
for here comes the trout that must be caught with tickling.
Let this be so, and doubt not but success
And since you call'd me master for so long,
Not like a formal man.
But by degree, stand in authentic place?
Shall not in their issue stand;
They pray, grant thou, lest faith turn to despair.
By the dead and drowsy fire:
To his unmaster'd importunity.
To your eye,
And many unrough youths that even now
That Falstaff at that oak shall meet with us.
fair; there was good sport at his making, and the
by wearing his apparel neatly.
One of them showed me a ring that he had of your
I have an interest in your hate's proceeding,
Why, they stay at door, sir.
To an infected jelly and my name
In prenzie guards! Dost thou think, Claudio?
To this their late escape.
So shall he waste his means, weary his soldiers,
Would be her lord? or shall I say, her uncle?
I pray you.
That valiant Clifford, with his rapier's point,
And I, here, at the bulwark of the bridge.
He hence removed last night and with more haste
beside the Tyrian vessel.
Enter ROSALIND, SILVIUS, and PHEBE
Thy valour and thy heart, thou art a traitor;
Dies
Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar.
If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague for
Be rein'd again to temperance; then he speaks
man as Orlando?
If you may please to think I love the king
Why, is he not with the queen?
Here comes himself to guide you.
Nor I.
And cries aloud 'Tarry, dear cousin Suffolk!
Now death shall stop his dismal threatening sound,
Master Slender had her; or, in sooth, I would Master
This same is she, and I do give you her.
His heart and hand both open and both free;
I knew he was not in his perfect wits.
I can no more.
Please you dismiss me either with 'ay' or 'no.'
They say, by him the good Duke Humphrey died;
From her shall read the perfect ways of honour,
Whoreson dog! I give him satisfaction?
Can witness with me that it is not so
Drive them from Orleans and be immortalized.
Exeunt
I like him well; 'tis not amiss. And I was about to
pate full of fine dirt? will his vouchers vouch him
Upon a just survey, take Titus' part,
Gloucester, York, Buckingham, Somerset,
When time is broke and no proportion kept!
Love talks with better knowledge, and knowledge with
Enter POMPEY
up watch, or play with my--some rich jewel. Toby
Your loving motion toward the common body,
Nay, temperately; your promise.
But give them to his master for a present.
Than of his outward show; which, God he knows,
I'm not their father; yet who this should be,
A place of potency and sway o' the state,
Thrice hath this Hotspur, Mars in swathling clothes,
I must produce my power. Here, take her hand,
Gracious madam,
Forgetting thy great deeds, when neighbour states,
And leave the world for me to bustle in!
The iron of itself, though heat red-hot,
Even such a husband
SCENE I. Plains near Rome.
Whose aim seems far too short to hit me here:
Nay, never bear me hence, dispatch me here,
He runs at IAGO  IAGO, from behind, stabs EMILIA, and exit
To die for't!
according to the scrip.
What wisdom stirs amongst you? Come, sir, now
Although before the solemn priest I have sworn,
O true apothecary!
tenderness of her nature became as a prey to her
Made good guard for itself.
Exeunt
That's not the tune.
Dive, thoughts, down to my soul: here
Had witchcraft in't; he grew unto his seat;
Hail, Dian! to perform thy just command,
I am skilless of; but, by my modesty,
Sing all a green willow:
Until to-morrow morning, lords, farewell.
God be wi' you: let's meet as little as we can.
To fashion this false sport, in spite of me.
And soon lie Richard in an earthly pit!
O heavens! O heavens!
come in our shadow, to scatter his crowns in the
Do you intend it?
Give me your hand, sir.
Revolts from true birth, stumbling on abuse:
Do not weep, do not weep. Alas the day!
Rises, and walks aside
Hector's great spirit flew: answer me, heavens!
invited you all. I tell him we shall stay here at
I'll speak no more but 'Vengeance rot you all!'
I pray, draw near.
ACT I
Under an oak whose antique root peeps out
Not I, I assure thee: setting the attractions of my
would once use our hearts, whereby we might express
Crack my clear voice with sobs and break my heart
They may break his foaming courser's back,
Our stern alarums changed to merry meetings,
That sport best pleases that doth least know how:
O illiterate loiterer! it was the son of thy
And very wisely threat before you sting.
If ever I were wilful-negligent,
We talk here in the public haunt of men:
But, alack, my hand is sworn
Together with a recompense more fruitful
Might come to me again. Who's there?
for that. If you would conjure in her, you must
King Philip, listen to the cardinal.
To-morrow truly will I meet with thee.
[Aside]  Cold news for me; for I had hope of France
Choose thou thy husband, and I'll pay thy dower;
Wilt thou go?
But, soft! here come my executioners.
But love, first learned in a lady's eyes,
with him; I'll make him dance. Will you go, gentles?
But mine is all as hungry as the sea,
Bless you, sir!
But can do more in England than the king.
some more towns in France. Soldiers, defer the
Enter KING HENRY, PRINCE HENRY, Lord John of  LANCASTER, EARL OF WESTMORELAND, SIR WALTER BLUNT, and FALSTAFF
I'm lost in it, my lord. But let him come;
thou art preparing fire for us; look thee, here's
Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
So you thought him;
Why, all delights are vain; but that most vain,
Of every line and trick of his sweet favour:
Confess who set thee up and pluck'd thee own,
Shall never see his pardon; for my state
That any thing he sees, which moves his liking,
And shame thine honourable age with blood?
My lord constable, the armour that I saw in your tent
Menecrates and Menas, famous pirates,
Whither I must, I must; and, to conclude,
Not so hot:
Alarum. Exeunt
But time will not permit: all is uneven,
Yet, poor old heart, he holp the heavens to rain.
Let me be clear of thee.
To breakfast once forth of my company.
And his opposite, the youth, bears in his visage no
And now I give my sensual race the rein:
Following the mirror of all Christian kings,
If she do bid me pack, I'll give her thanks,
In moral paradise of such sweet flesh?
How now, sir? what are you reasoning with yourself?
Since she was Cleopatra? Whip him, fellows,
Which I have here recover'd from the Moor:
The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.
SCENE II. Before York.
That has been blue, but not her eyebrows.
Since she respects my mistress' love so much.
Thou'rt i' the right, girl; more o, that.
And simpler than the infancy of truth.
Shaking the bloody fingers of thy foes,
Nay, that I can deny by a circumstance.
Well said, my noble Scot: if speaking truth
In Brittany, received intelligence
'Tis but fortune; all is fortune. Maria once told
The capon burns, the pig falls from the spit,
No. madam, he does nothing but smile: your
I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
Caps, hands, and tongues, applaud it to the clouds:
Most often do so near the bottom run
Exeunt POLIXENES, HERMIONE, and Attendants
For fear they die before their pardon come.
No; thou shalt.
And by good testimony, or I'll seize thy life,
Like to a harvest-man that's task'd to mow
Out of my grief and my impatience,
Give me thy hand. I do begin to have bloody thoughts.
March on, my fellows:
Of old Andronicus. And what an if
Will your answer serve fit to all questions?
Thus to retort your manifest appeal,
A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a
And through him what is nearest to him, which is
My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
That all the world will be in love with night
SCENE VIII. Venice. A street.
And with the clamour keep her still awake.
That like nor peace nor war? the one affrights you,
That we are here.
I know thee not; why, then, should I betray thee?
He was a king bless'd of the King of kings.
Exit Ghost
Expresseth his full tilth and husbandry.
You are young, Sir Harry Guildford.
If ever he have child, abortive be it,
Find mercy in the law, 'tis his: if none,
Sons, peace!
And I,--like one lost in a thorny wood,
Sad Lucretia's modesty.
pity: yet I'll tarry till my son come; he hallooed
Would she had never given you leave to come!
signs of leaping-houses and the blessed sun himself
O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
Like vassalage at unawares encountering
In quest of them, unhappy, lose myself.
What joy is joy, if Silvia be not by?
Of what is in her chamber nothing saves
Longer to live most weary, and present
am such a tender ass, if my hair do but tickle me,
Since Pompey's feast, as Menas says, is troubled
'Twixt his unkindness and his kindness; the one
Ay, sir; she took them, read them in my presence;
praise, and that highly, not to speak it profanely,
By those that know the very nerves of state,
Behold this pattern of thy butcheries.
You shall try but one fall.
First, make yourself but like one.
'orld, I warrant you sall find, in the comparisons
Now near enough: your leafy screens throw down.
Peaceful commerce from dividable shores,
I brought high Hereford, if you call him so,
Strain'd purely from all hollow bias-drawing,
My manly eyes did scorn an humble tear;
From the Count Orsino, is it?
SCENE I. Dunsinane. Ante-room in the castle.
hath no lean wardrobe. 'Sblood, I am as melancholy
All this I speak in print, for in print I found it.
Now wears his crown.
We set the axe to thy usurping root;
For time hath set a blot upon my pride.
Whether it be the fault and glimpse of newness,
But fear not thou, until thy foot be snared,
Upon his peril, that I have reserved
Which outwardly ye show? My noble partner
Cardinal of York, are join'd with me their servant
As 'tis said, the bastard son of Gloucester.
do the office of a warming-pan. Faith, he's very ill.
We fear to warrant in our native place!
Hast not the soft way which, thou dost confess,
At Coventry, upon Saint Lambert's day:
Then give my charge up to Sir Nicholas Vaux,
O Iago!
Come, citizens: 'zounds! I'll entreat no more.
Is severally in all. Let's quit this ground,
As, by my faith, I see no more in you
Sirs, you four shall front them in the narrow lane;
Ne'er look'd but on my back; when they shall see
That I must be their scourge and minister.
But fall, unshaken, when they mellow be.
I know not, madam: 'tis too bad, too bad.
Sir Thomas Lovell, had the cardinal
Halloo, halloo, loo, loo!
My services to your lordship.
Some shipping unrestored: lastly, he frets
Let me see--about Michaelmas next I shall be--
And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine--
I do not set my life in a pin's fee;
What shall King Henry be a pupil still
Enter the KING, SALISBURY, WARWICK, to the CARDINAL in bed
liberty of feasting from this present hour of five
opposite with a kinsman, surly with servants; let
The son of Duncan,
Both strength of limb and policy of mind,
A wilderness is populous enough,
simple conjectures: but that is all one. If Sir
a verb, and such abominable words as no Christian
As had she studied to misuse me so.
That will I.
O noble father, you lament in vain:
By waves from coast to coast is tost:
And suffer'd me by the voice of slaves to be
And have an hour of hearing; and, by'r lady,
To't.
Grandam, this would have been a biting jest.
as since he hath been allowed the name of; but I
--Handkerchief--confessions--handkerchief!--To
That's not amiss;
Would they were basilisks, to strike thee dead!
Be but to sleep and feed? a beast, no more.
My gracious sovereign, now in Devonshire,
May justly diet me. I pray you yet;
Unrip'dst the bowels of thy sovereign's son.
Most best, most dearest, should in this trice of time
Which, as thou know'st, unjustly must be spilt.
Exit Widow
If, as his nature is, he fall in rage
I should leave grazing, were I of your flock,
sport anon: follow me, gentlemen.
Was there with him, if I have heard a truth.
wants. I pray you, fail me not.
To stay the judgment o' the divorce; for if
And his physicians fear him mightily.
And being enfranchised, bid him come to me.
Why, what is he? as good a man as York.
Of this his nephew's purpose,--to suppress
His dove will prove, his gold will hold,
That rids our dogs of languish?
That had, give't these fellows
is more, pensioners; but, I warrant you, all is one with her.
Saucy and overbold? How did you dare
He does me double wrong
SCENE II. A street.
Confederate with the queen and her two sons:
But hast thou done thy errand to Baptista?
this tabourer; he lays it on.
And at first meeting loved;
I see your brows are full of discontent,
Our navy thrive, I have an absolute hope
Let it be seen to-morrow in the battle
mutualities so marshal the way, hard at hand comes
Come, come, no more of that.
Are spectacled to see him: your prattling nurse
enters the confines of a tavern claps me his sword
Did mock sad fools withal: this cannot be:
Luxuriously pick'd out: for, I am sure,
'Tis not for fear but anger that thy cheeks
I know 'tis he. We are held as outlaws: hence!
Tush, tush! fear boys with bugs.
For my free speech! you must awhile be patient:
In truth, sir, and she is pretty, and honest, and
Nay, as they dare. I will bite my thumb at them;
Friend,
Yet may he live awhile; and, it may be,
Is that poor man that hangs on princes' favours!
La you, an you speak ill of the devil, how he takes
Measures of wheat to Rome; this 'greed upon
And didst in signs again parley with sin;
I would my husband would meet him in this shape: he
The daughter of a king, our wife, and one
O proper stuff!
hobby-horses must not hear.
Ah, stand by.
Sir, you and I must part, but that's not it:
Hollow upon this plain, so many hollow factions.
Prefer you to his daughter. Frame yourself
We must not now displease him.
May it please your grace,--
Tell me thy mind; for I have Pisa left
And two Northumberlands; two braver men
In feeding them with those my former fortunes
Look in the calendar, and bring me word.
But she I mean is promised by her friends
nothing but roguery to be found in villanous man:
He is all the mother's, from the top to toe.
Exit QUEEN ELIZABETH
Tie up my love's tongue bring him silently.
For we will hear, note and believe in heart
We dare not move the question of our place,
And they to him are angels.
Most sure and vulgar: every one hears that,
And since this business so fair is done,
rightful heir to the crown?
Sir,
Greater he shall not be; if he serve God,
She would not lose it: her attendants are
Hath yoked a nation strong, train'd up in arms.
far out of his knowledge!
Married the Duke of Clarence' daughter, did he not?
increasing in love,
The pommel of Caesar's falchion.
A sealed bag, two sealed bags of ducats,
It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
Be she as foul as was Florentius' love,
One would have lingering wars with little cost;
Then fate o'er-rules, that, one man holding troth,
Be of good cheer;
On Holy-rood day, the gallant Hotspur there,
Master, there is a bark of Epidamnum
Or with this paper shall I stop it: Hold, sir:
As for my country I have shed my blood,
In confutation of which rude reproach
Brother, I'll go and bring it thee.
Are you so brave? I'll have you talked with anon.
Would not be purged, she sent you word she was dead;
To buy you a better husband.
beyond credit,--
excellent sweet lady; and, out of all suspicion,
Enter Guard
Stabs him
Dost thou speak like a king? Do thou stand for me,
It pleased the king his master very late
Excellent falsehood!
I am a spirit of no common rate;
Soundly invite him--his two chamberlains
Went he hence now?
Exit
too loud, or tainting his discipline; or from what
That I was sent for nothing but a rope!
For how can tyrants safely govern home,
To think upon the part of business which
And your supply, which you have wish'd so long,
Go, some of you convey him to the Tower.
Than an unstringed viol or a harp,
Yet confident I'll keep what I have swore
Dies
This must be known; which, being kept close, might
Re-enter GLOUCESTER
You'll speak with Coriolanus.
To sparkle in the spirits of my daughter,
I now am full resolved to take a wife
The dream's here still: even when I wake, it is
Lord bishop, set the crown upon his head.
Scattering flowers
The deed, which both our tongues held vile to name.
down, an a' were lustier than he is, and twenty such
Enter Clown, and PAROLLES, following
Exit Boy
Having first seized his books, or with a log
not very well: nay, I think it is scurvy, and begin
And keep it from the earth.
Than our foregoers: the mere word's a slave
on he has the cramp.
Better it were a brother died at once,
Only look up clear;
Find out their enemies now. Tremble, thou wretch,
She ne'er had known pomp: though't be temporal,
Pluck a bard sentence: prithee, valiant youth,
Think not on him till to-morrow:
Sir, you have done enough, and have perform'd
We shall be short in our provision:
I hope it be not gone to tell my lord
peril: I had rather than a thousand pound he were
I will hold my peace when Achilles' brach bids me, shall I?
I have spoke it, and I did it.
He dies to me again when talk'd of: sure,
'Tis still a dream, or else such stuff as madmen
would send me word, he cut it to please himself:
And were brought moping hither.
By the misprising of a maid too virtuous
As therefore kept to do so.
At the hedge-corner, in the coldest fault?
Judas I am,--
The cat, with eyne of burning coal,
Give me your hand first. Fare you well, my lord.
instrument of honour again into his native quarter,
When, being not at your lodging to be found,
Betwixt our nation and the aspiring French;
If you have tears, prepare to shed them now.
You go so much backward when you fight.
extracting it clutch'd? What reply, ha? What
That liked, but had a rougher task in hand
Is gone to pray the holy king, upon his aid
Remember, boys, I pour'd forth tears in vain,
not such need to hide itself. Let's see: come,
Exeunt
What is thy excellence in a galliard, knight?
With an augmented greeting.
The dove will peck the estridge; and I see still,
Thus, for my duty's sake, I rather chose
Oft have I seen a hot o'erweening cur
Exeunt GREMIO and HORTENSIO
One of our souls had wander'd in the air.
What, shall our feast be kept with slaughter'd men?
Why, nature needs not what thou gorgeous wear'st,
Silver'd o'er; and so was this.
I'll fill your grave up: stir, nay, come away,
To lose an oath to win a paradise?
her look, or any woman else.
O Pyramus, arise!
Farewell: the gods with safety stand about thee!
To get her cunning schoolmasters to instruct her?
An esperance so obstinately strong,
Saint Cupid, then! and, soldiers, to the field!
I know him well: you are very welcome, sir,
For on my heart they tread now whilst I live;
We hear not of him, neither need we fear him;
O heaven! this is Mistress Anne Page.
From all direction, purpose, course, intent:
Ah, kill me with thy weapon, not with words!
Or, like the Parthian, I shall flying fight;
Decking with liquid pearl the bladed grass,
Madam, with all my heart;
longer. Some mollification for your giant, sweet
about me, I am no gibbet for you. Go. A short knife
Thy sumptuous buildings and thy wife's attire
Thou hast by moonlight at her window sung,
I was confederate with the Romans: so
And so I leave you both:
Exit Servant
Then, if you can,
To tear with thunder the wide cheeks o' the air,
play, I remember, pleased not the million; 'twas
And my more-having would be as a sauce
I marvel Cambio comes not all this while.
Let the devil and his dam haunt you! What did you
So dissolute a crew.
Instead whereof sharp stakes pluck'd out of hedges
According to our threefold order ta'en?
No, my love, I should not mourn, but die for thee.
Which should undo more doing: ay, and thou,
Where that same banish'd runagate doth live,
I will subscribe and say I wrong'd the duke.
Smile, gentle heaven! or strike, ungentle death!
Say that the king, which may command, entreats.
Not so; but it hath been the longest night
Pyramus, or nothing.
A wretched creature and must bend his body,
Kept him a foreign man still; which so grieved him,
What meanest thou?
Even as the flourish when true subjects bow
offer them instances; which shall bear no less
the orchard and saw me court Margaret in Hero's
Is that the rebels have consumed with fire
Once more, what news?
Far in the fresh lap of the crimson rose,
I fear our happiness is at the highest.
What shall we do? let us, that have our tongues,
Enter IACHIMO
Re-enter Servant
RICHARD
Like workmen. I'll example you with thievery.
Never to speak to lady afterward
Enter LODOVICO, DESDEMONA, and Attendants
And deeper than did ever plummet sound
Ay, by my faith, they shall not be changed yet.
And, like this insubstantial pageant faded,
When she is gone. Then open not thy lips:
Take vantage, heavy eyes, not to behold
Didst thou deliver to me on the mart.
also life is a shuttle. I am in haste; go along
Beat on a crown, the treasure of thy heart;
For these my friends in spite of thee shall wear.
And I confess besides I am no maid:
Caesar's sister is called Octavia.
I only have made a mouth of his eye,
our pleasure to fail, and then will they adventure
Park about midnight, at Herne's oak, and you shall
of all compass.
SCENE I. Paris. The KING's palace.
And instantly return with me again,
and though the devil lead the measure, such are to
'Tis very good; I must be circumstanced.
Your lips will feel them the sooner. Shallow again.
I'll send for you anon. Sir, I obey the mandate,
Exit EROS
Away, I say!
Good morrow, carriers. What's o'clock?
'Gainst Fortune's state would treason have
To smile at scapes and perils overblown.
He wills you, in the name of God Almighty,
Go quick away; the story of my life
There's fresher air, my lord,
will be king and queen--save our graces!--and
Your grace's title shall be multiplied.
With all my heart, my liege.
SCENE IV. France. The KING'S palace.
[Aside to ANTONIO]  I say, to-night: no more.
I had rather give my body than my soul.
Doubtful it stood;
Thou, it seems, that calls for company to
His father's death, and our o'erhasty marriage.
Enter HERMIONE, MAMILLIUS, and Ladies
The noble man have mercy.
For ever housed where it gets possession.
A barren detested vale, you see it is;
This friendly treaty of our threaten'd town?
Beside the haughty protector, have we Beaufort,
Enter MARIANA and a Boy
well knock'd at first, Then had not Grumio come by the worst.
I'll provide you a chain; and I'll do what I can to
Sent forth great largess to your offices.
The napless vesture of humility;
Exit LAUNCE
the athversary, you may discuss unto the duke, look
How mean soe'er, that have their honest wills,
pupil age of this present twelve o'clock at midnight.
service I have done fatherly.
What, not an oath? nay, then the world goes hard
To drink to these fair ladies, and a measure
Did I offend your highness.
Enter HELENA
After his death, of all he dies possess'd of.
As they have given these hairs their liberty!'
great article; and his infusion of such dearth and
As it hath been to us rare, pleasant, speedy,
With language that would make me spurn the sea,
Let her approach.
And of a lovely boy: the God of heaven
this reason: His master would be served before a
O, seek not to entrap me, gracious lord,
Exit
How I have loved and honour'd Saturnine!
For you, most wicked sir, whom to call brother
too for your society.
When time is old and hath forgot itself,
Hang me by the neck, if horns that year miscarry.
A father and a friend to thee and Rome.
To be corrupt and treasonous.
Then thus: of many good I think him best.
Your marriage comes by destiny,
How now, Abhorson? what's the news with you?
I drew to part them: in the instant came
To gratify his noble service that
therefore I will attempt the doing it.
Exit
tears that ever we shed.
Upon thee in the letter. Prithee, be content:
I care no more for than I do for heaven,
Come, you shake the head at so long a breathing:
Madam, it is.
That would divorce this terror from my heart;'
Soon kindled and soon burnt; carded his state,
Shall stain your brother: make your soonest haste;
Plucking the grass, to know where sits the wind,
Now thou art seal'd the son of chivalry?
Takes from his high respect: thither Macduff
And made an evening at the noontide prick.
Whose star-like nobleness gave life and influence
And pull her out of Acheron by the heels.
Speak to me:
But when they should endure the bloody spur,
His days are foul and his drink dangerous.
tongue speaks.
I will the banner from a trumpet take,
Sorrow were ever razed and testy wrath
I come to visit the afflicted spirits
This speak I, lords, to let you understand,
On Thursday we ourselves will march: our meeting
Enter DUKE FREDERICK, Lords, and OLIVER
Never, but once.
Welcome, Jack: where hast thou been?
Why, then, three-farthing worth of silk.
Such as is bent on sun-like majesty
Bearing a Tartar's painted bow of lath,
Publicola, and Caelius, are for sea:
For to a vision so apparent rumour
protest, I have dealt most directly in thy affair.
Friend, we understand not one another: I am too
No; an he were, I would burn my study. But, I pray
Then be your eyes the witness of this ill:
offence to my inferiors.
But dare all imminence that gods and men
Will make what's homely savoury: weariness
For there young Henry with his nobles lie.
ANTIPHOLUS
Hear ye, captain, are you not at leisure?
isle of Cyprus and our noble general Othello!
I was forced to scold. Your judgments, my grave lords,
Have earnestly implored a general peace
The world's a huge thing: it is a great price.
The conquest of our scarce cold conqueror,
You lean'd unto his sentence with what patience
Seducing so my friends; and, to this end,
I would say thou hadst suck'd wisdom from thy teat.
With the defunct, or sleep upon the dead.
[Beating him]  You cur!
Then should I know you by description;
Exeunt SHALLOW and SIR HUGH EVANS
Should find a running banquet ere they rested,
the mortal Venus, the heart-blood of beauty, love's
What, courage, man! What though care killed a cat,
of purses than giving direction doth from labouring;
This ancient ruffian, sir, whose life I have spared
Though Marcius earned them not, and all his faults
Your highness with an heir!
Yet lives our pilot still. Is't meet that he
Yes, here I tender it for him in the court;
This is mere madness:
Enter OTHELLO
you first,
If she have time to breathe be well assured
I give him you, the noblest that survives,
tale shall put you down. Then did we two set on you
Well met, my lord; I am glad to see your honour.
Mesopotamia, and the shelters whither
call them--that many wearing rapiers are afraid of
That will I, for I must bear answer back
heart you love her, being out of heart that you
Come hither, boy: ask me this slave in French
Yet in some sort they are better than the tribunes,
Yes, better, sir.
dragon's tail; and my nativity was under Ursa
wont, when you laughed, to crow like a cock; when you
Angliae, et Haeres Franciae.
I post from love: good lover, let me go.
Go tell the lords o' the city I am here:
Even when their sorrows almost were forgot;
And I'll no longer be a Capulet.
The pleasant garden of great Italy;
A loyal, just and upright gentleman:
'Tis as impossible that he's undrown'd
Would it not shame thee in so fair a troop
Ere they have done their mischief. Where's thy drum?
ANTIPHOLUS
[Within]  And you said no.
dealing. When I desire their leave that I might
As poisonous of your honour: no; our suit
So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word;
Gloucester, I do defy thee. Lords, vouchsafe
I was the more deceived.
A gentler scion to the wildest stock,
Pray, let us follow 'em.
That roots itself in ease on Lethe wharf,
Seest thou not, I say, what a deformed thief this
Upon this jump.
beats me, and I rail at him: O, worthy satisfaction!
Because thou art not seen,
Some six or seven, who did hide their faces
Born to eclipse thy life this afternoon.
Gave wings to my propension and cut off
Was in his countenance. You he bade
Like to the earth swallow her own increase.
Amen, with all my heart!
Under my burthen groan'd; which raised in me
fingers thus, and through that cranny shall Pyramus
Exeunt
The rest o' the island.
Methinks, I see him now--
ACT IV
But we in it shall be remember'd;
Madman and beggar too.
And makes him roar these accusations forth.
He begg'd of me to steal it.
Why do you look so strange upon your wife?
Will she away to-night?
there's something extraordinary in thee. Come, I
What case stand I in? I must be the poisoner
Despite of suit, to see a lady's face.
should find
assaults of affection.
EDMUND is borne off
I know the shape of's leg: this is his hand;
I know you all, and will awhile uphold
Exeunt Tribunes
So may you lose your arms:
Ere I could make thee open thy white hand
Our late edict shall strongly stand in force:
Show me briefly how.
Stamps
Oft have you heard me wish for such an hour,
The horse were merely lost; the mares would bear
[Within]  It seems thou want'st breaking: out upon
A plum-tree, master.
Yet 'tis not madness. Where's Antonio, then?
Offering the fortunes of his former days,
In framing an artist, art hath thus decreed,
My name is Roderigo.
Diseases have been sold dearer than physic,
Yet so he ruled and such a prince he was
Very easily possible: he wears his faith but as
Ay, if a' have no man's blood in's belly than will
There's order given for her coronation:
Such and no other than event doth form it,
That he have his. Call up some gentlemen.
Which we of taste and feeling are, for those parts that
The clock upbraids me with the waste of time.
What's the matter, sir?
Alarums. Enter RUTLAND and his Tutor
Since I am crept in favour with myself,
When are you married, madam?
Who art thou? say, that I may honour thee.
I rather tell thee what is to be fear'd
As he is but my father's brother's son,
And let us bathe our hands in Caesar's blood
But let her live.
Marcellus and Bernardo, on their watch,
To say if that the bastard boys of York
Give me leave to speak.
For murder, though it have no tongue, will speak
Have no more profit of their shining nights
Might liquid tears or heart-offending groans
Mark Antony is every hour in Rome
So from thy soul's love didst thou love her brothers;
Any companion in the world but you,
Gardener, for telling me these news of woe,
Shall be crown'd in Brutus.
The Earl of Westmoreland set forth to-day;
To fetch my poor distracted husband hence.
Whereof you cannot easily purge yourself.
There is no stir or walking in the streets;
I do adore thy sweet grace's slipper.
The glow-worm shows the matin to be near,
Freedom, hey-day! hey-day, freedom! freedom,
A segregation of the Turkish fleet:
And wretched fools' secrets heedfully o'ereye.
Winnow the truth from falsehood. On, speak to him.
And let him say to England that we send
Can the world buy such a jewel?
Exit
are but boards, sailors but men: there be land-rats
[Aside]  Were I from Dunsinane away and clear,
O Thou, whose captain I account myself,
My lord?
Trow you whither I am going? To Baptista Minola.
concerning your marriage.
there's none abroad so wholesome as that you vent.
I have perused her well;
What wood is this before us?
But you shall bear the burden soon at night.
Of private conference.
We offer fair; take it advisedly.
Enobarbus, Antony
The Castle in Saint Alban's, Somerset
great wager on your head: sir, this is the matter,--
Pardon, pardon!
Doth cherish you and yours, God punish me
That we remain your friend; and so, adieu.
Burthen Ding-dong
fair on Friday as Helen is on Sunday. But what care
My lord, you nod; you do not mind the play.
A fit or two o' the face; but they are shrewd ones;
As friends to Antioch, we may feast in Tyre.
The wind-shaked surge, with high and monstrous mane,
And make my seated heart knock at my ribs,
I fear it, I promise you.
We will require her welcome.
Antioch, farewell! for wisdom sees, those men
Stay not to answer me, but get thee gone:
Hap what hap may, I'll roundly go about her:
Then 'twas my turn to fly, and now 'tis thine.
Rage like an angry boar chafed with sweat?
I am a scribbled form, drawn with a pen
With horn and hound we'll give your grace bonjour.
The world is not thy friend nor the world's law;
I do beseech ye, if you bear me hard,
It is not a fashion for the maids in France to kiss
By self-unable motion: therefore dare not
For she did speak in starts distractedly.
SCENE IV. The same. Pandarus' house.
With all my heart, gentlemen both; and how fare you?
Nurse?
I am, sir,
SCENE III. Fields near St. Alban's.
Nay, but, fellow, fellow,--
To torture thee the more, being what thou art.
Within their chiefest temple I'll erect
Beetles black, approach not near;
Why, I was writing of my epitaph;
Till by some elder masters, of known honour,
That was sent to me from the council, pray'd me
SCENE XIII. Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace.
Doth my name lodge? tell me, that I may sack
To him, and to his substitutes.
In drops of sorrow. Sons, kinsmen, thanes,
You'll give yourself to this most faithful shepherd?
Hath willingly departed with a part,
Before milk-white, now purple with love's wound,
use me with estimation.
Proceed.
That were his lackeys: I cried 'hum,' and 'well, go to,'
Enter a Messenger, with two heads and a hand
'Twould move me sooner.
I'm glad 'tis there: now I would pray our monsieurs
I hear their drums: let's set our men in order,
Have patience, gentle Julia.
Tell me if you love Warwick more than me?
By computation and mine host's report.
That such a hideous trumpet calls to parley
tickled you othergates than he did.
I prithee, call me. Sleep hath seized me wholly
And, like a rat without a tail,
And let us to the Tiger all to dinner,
Absent thee from felicity awhile,
But would it please thee, good Andronicus,
That one meets Hector; if none else, I am he.
Fellow, why dost thou show me thus to the world?
How we may steal from hence, and for the gap
will prove a cockney. I prithee now, ungird thy
Her chariot is an empty hazel-nut
Why will you mew her up,
His ancient knot of dangerous adversaries
For I have had such faults; but rather tell me,
And sit at chiefest stern of public weal.
Silver'd in the moon's eclipse,
are ever thrust to the wall: therefore I will push
Peaseblossom! Cobweb! Moth! and Mustardseed!
Cassio, my lord, hath kill'd a young Venetian
in Thisbe's garter, it would have been a fine
Syria, Cilicia, and Phoenicia: she
Than in the note of judgment; and worthier
For seeing him I see my life in death.
May this be possible? may this be true?
Are not you Signior Benedick?
And well shall you perceive how willingly
Where you did give a fair and natural light,
Your brother Richard mark'd him for the grave:
To kiss and talk to. I'll have the work ta'en out,
Privy to none of this. How will this grieve you,
Why, then, I think Cassio's an honest man.
his cowardship, ask Fabian.
I thank God, I thank God. Is't true, is't true?
Enter Second Merchant, ANGELO, and an Officer
What more remains?
She that doth call me husband, even my soul
But when your carters or your waiting-vassals
And, with a martial scorn, with one hand beats
But come, young waverer, come, go with me,
Signior Benedick that said so.
And let us hear Bernardo speak of this.
SCENE II. The same. The DUKE's palace.
I wasted time, and now doth time waste me;
and perturbation follows her.
Awake, and think our wrongs in Richard's bosom
We'll serve Him too and be his fellow so:
She adulterates hourly with thine uncle John,
I have spoken better of you than you have or will to
one man picked out of ten thousand.
Till then fair hope must hinder life's decay.
Or sent to Naples. Let me not,
And to suppose her chaste! No, let me know;
Your wife, my lord; your true
I never saw my father in my life.
Warrant me welcome to my Proteus.
Why, what an intricate impeach is this!
Long live Edward the Fourth!
A second time I kill my husband dead,
Now, in good sadness, son Petruchio,
And, as we may, cherish Duke Humphrey's deeds,
Comes from my lord with letters.
This little abstract doth contain that large
These eyes that never shed remorseful tear,
But fare thee well, most foul, most fair! farewell,
his angers, look you, kill his best friend, Cleitus.
Why appear you with this ridiculous boldness before my lady?
Scratches with briers,
And to do that well craves a kind of wit:
Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
You think none but your sheets are privy to your wishes.
beseech the virtuous Desdemona to undertake for me:
What is't thou say'st? Her voice was ever soft,
to her by oath, and the nuptial appointed: between
But this is worshipful society
Obeying in commanding, and thy parts
ACT III
As with a woman. Come, you'll play with me, sir?
To hear Cominius speak?
Where do you dwell?
In good troth, it begins so.
are in love or that you will be in love or that you
A monk o' the Chartreux.
And here the bracelet of the truest princess
That stays upon me, whose persuasion is
Ho, Lucilius! hark, a word with you.
Despite of mine own nature. Quickly send,
Why, as it were unlicensed of your loves,
Prevail not, go and see: if you can bring
Edward and York; then haply she will weep:
Enter TYBALT and others
May all to Athens back again repair
Exit THURIO
three hits: he hath laid on twelve for nine; and it
And will have no attorney but myself;
Yet did I purpose as they do entreat;
That, when the brains were out, the man would die,
Your belly's answer? What!
This louring tempest of your home-bred hate;
Why, sadness is one and the self-same thing, dear imp.
I' the justice of compare! O villain Leonine!
Wit, an't be thy will, put me into good fooling!
Painting is welcome.
Like to a pair of loving turtle-doves
Go to, sir; you were beaten in Italy for picking a
And call these foul offenders to their answers
For the which, with songs of woe,
Two yards, and more.
Why, then my cousin Margaret and Ursula
do, his fears, out of doubt, be of the same relish
And bid her dry her weeping eyes therewith.
and I'll be merry in my revenge.
Than when these fellows ran about the streets,
And be not peevish-fond in great designs.
Re-enter DESDEMONA and EMILIA
SCENE VII. Florence. The Widow's house.
Re-enter PRINCE HENRY and LORD JOHN OF LANCASTER
Best half of our affair.
Thy mother's of my generation: what's she, if I be a dog?
the nose, as if you snuffed up love by smelling
she's a fair lady: I do spy some marks of love in
Enter Senator, with papers in his hand
To quit him with this arm? and is't not to be damn'd,
Look, who kneels here! Flesh of thy flesh, Thaisa;
Nor shalt not, till necessity be served.
Whatever I shall think.
This in the public eye?
O, blood, blood, blood!
thought her spirit had been invincible against all
Why, then, thy husband's lands I freely give thee.
to his legs again?
these gifts a curtain before 'em? are they like to
But she herself is hit lower: have I hit her now?
Nor in thine, lord.
He flouted us downright.
I humbly thank your highness.
Engage it to the trial, if thou darest.
That I'll requite its last? No:
Where is the villain, Edmund?
A visage of demand; for, I do fear,
That it intends to do? My lord of Burgundy,
Attend the sequel of your imposition,
Fetch me this herb; and be thou here again
I cannot nor I will not yield to you.
Hence hath offence his quick celerity,
I ought to know of: and, upon my knees,
If you did wed my sister for her wealth,
I think, by some odd gimmors or device
Though thanks to all, must I select
My daughter takes his going grievously.
Of pity, not revenge!
That, notwithstanding thy capacity
Than is a slave in base servility;
When she did think my master loved her well,
So;
Perform'd, my Ariel; a grace it had, devouring:
Let me see, let me see; is not the leaf turn'd down
But wherefore could not I pronounce 'Amen'?
And therefore we must needs admit the means
And lasting in her sad remembrance.
Making night hideous; and we fools of nature
What is the news?
As every loyal subject ought to do.
Against the envy of less happier lands,
The noontide sun, call'd forth the mutinous winds,
to a leash of drawers; and can call them all by
of some kind of men that put quarrels purposely on
Is this of hers! Lord cardinal, will your grace
Most miserable hour that e'er time saw
That living mortals, hearing them, run mad:--
Your daughter here the princes left for dead:
in plain terms, gone to heaven.
What, in ill thoughts again? Men must endure
Yes. Has he affections in him,
He speaks well.
For saying so, there's gold:
Had quite miscarried: I dare be bound again,
altar; it hath done meritorious service.
SCENE VII. The orchard in Swinstead Abbey.
And wears upon his baby-brow the round
Lest, being suffer'd in that harmful slumber,
Thou know'st she has raised me from my sickly bed.
It will be pastime passing excellent,
And water once a day her chamber round
Believe me, lords, my tender years can tell
Of their own choice: one's Junius Brutus,
A plague upon you all! His royal person,--
Why, if it be so, I will marry her upon any
I'll not have it so.
The loose encounters of lascivious men:
With burial amongst their ancestors:
and to that end riders dearly hired: but I, his
Myself your loyal servant, your physician,
Pronounce dishonour of her; by my life,
Loosing upon thee, in the name of justice,
To fright them, ere destroy. But come in:
Embowell'd of their doctrine, have left off
For honour's cause, forbear your suffrages:
And cheer his grace with quick and merry words.
I am gone, though I am here: there is no love in
none, remember thy friends; get thee a good husband,
Give sorrow leave awhile to tutor me
He finds the joys of heaven here on earth;
Re-enter POLONIUS, with VOLTIMAND and CORNELIUS
Sweet Sir Toby, be patient for tonight: since the
The fancy outwork nature: on each side her
If they have overheard me now, why, hanging.
His heart is fracted and corroborate.
My boat sails freely, both with wind and stream.
Be thou a flatterer now, and seek to thrive
Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree;
But what praise couldst thou bestow on a deserving
My Lord of Oxford, you, Sir William Brandon,
been that day in the belfry.
She praised his complexion above Paris.
If, Biondello, thou wert come ashore,
If study's gain be thus and this be so,
That curtsy to them, do them reverence,
Well, I will go;
Now, Lovell, from the queen what is the news?
A man is well holp up that trusts to you:
To be my henchman.
Then be still.
Commends me to the thing I cannot get.
To the monument!
God pardon sin! wast thou with Rosaline?
Madam, you have bereft me of all words,
Doth Silvia know that I am banished?
Nay, come not near th' old man; keep out, che vor
O Setebos, these be brave spirits indeed!
This arm shall do it, or this life be spent.
To do obsequious sorrow: but to persever
What drink'st thou oft, instead of homage sweet,
The death of Fulvia, with more urgent touches,
SCENE I. Coventry.
Could force his soul so to his own conceit
Lays blame upon his promise. Please't your highness
This Edmund, in the reign of Bolingbroke,
Which was thrust forth of Milan, who most strangely
Lords, let him go. Please it your majesty,
Ravish a maid, or plot the way to do it,
The gifts she looks from me are pack'd and lock'd
Ay, my lord cardinal? how think you by that?
A slave without a knock.
You have been factious one against the other,
In whom the tempers and the minds of all
This is some minx's token, and I must take out the
For he was fitter for that place than earth.
Their minds may change. Besides, it were a mock
Did her grandsire leave her seven hundred pound?
Or I attach you by this officer.
Thou worse than any name, read thine own evil:
Because the king is certainly possess'd
Of your accustom'd diligence to me.
Whiles thou, a moral fool, sit'st still, and criest
A pestilent gall to me!
Lessen'd herself, and in the beams o' the sun
Make feasts, invite friends, and proclaim the banns;
Suppose they take offence without a cause,
Well, I'll hear it, sir: yet you must not think to
Calmly, good Laertes.
Enter GONERIL and EDMUND
I think it doth: is't frailty that thus errs?
devotion than can render it him; and leaves
SCENE II. A camp near Forres.
Hath any man seen him at the barber's?
Myself I throw, dread sovereign, at thy foot.
So thrive my soul--
That they have caught the king: and who knows yet
Who's there? What is't you seek?
Enter the Page as a lady, with attendants
And yesterday the bird of night did sit
Nor that is not the lark, whose notes do beat
Captain Fluellen, you must come presently to the
From forth day's path and Titan's fiery wheels:
that I wear, owe no man hate, envy no man's
To such whose place is under us, requires
Like witless antics, one another meet,
I have a young conception in my brain;
marvellous good neighbour, faith, and a very good
Consider, lords, he is the next of blood,
and the bodies shall be dragged at my horse' heels
Before did satisfy you. If you'll patch a quarrel,
Even with the sword that kill'd thee.
I cannot live to hear the news from England;
For what we know must be and is as common
So that you had her wrinkles and I her money,
Exit
And Duncan's horses--a thing most strange and certain--
mistress to carry me in the name of foul clothes to
For long agone I have forgot to court;
And I mine. I remember, when I was in love I broke
By heaven, I will not do thee so much ease.
any of his friends.
To grace occasions, let it be our suit
That come to gather money for their corn.
And fly would Talbot never, though he might.
If I have thanks, it is a dear expense:
Disparage not the faith thou dost not know,
effusion of our blood, the muster of his kingdom too
So many captains, gentlemen and soldiers,
And appetite, an universal wolf,
To let a fellow that will take rewards
Some way to leave him.
There's little of the melancholy element in her, my
To cope malicious censurers; which ever,
Beating him
But, Titus, I have touched thee to the quick,
Ay, forsooth; I'll fetch it you.
seems he to be touched?
Lifts up the array and discovers POLONIUS
God help, poor souls, how idly do they talk!
When we our betters see bearing our woes,
I fear, with dancing is a little heated.
I did suppose it should be on constraint:
He that will give good words to thee will flatter
Such garments and such years: 'The boy is fair,
To NORTHUMBERLAND
And fly like chidden Mercury from Jove,
Will o'er some high-viced city hang his poison
And he shall signify from time to time
Please your highness,
I will not leave the half-achieved Harfleur
a boy for a girl. If I had been married to him, for
off his head presently; and then break into his
Well met, my lord chamberlain.
To do the act that might the addition earn
differs not from the stalling of an ox? His horses
Avaunt! be gone! thou hast set me on the rack:
But whether 'twas the coldness of the king,
Oh, sir, upon her nose all o'er embellished with
And couple Clowder with the deep--mouth'd brach.
What man was he talk'd with you yesternight
ANTIPHOLUS
Good morrow to you both.
Gadshill lies to-night in Rochester: I have bespoke
Therefore, I pray you, stand not to discourse,
Wouldst have me rescue thee from this reproach?
My grieved ear withal; whereon, I begg'd
Whose credit with the judge, or own great place,
Yond Cassius has a lean and hungry look;
Mine ear is open and my heart prepared;
Exit
Thy Edward he is dead, that stabb'd my Edward:
And, madam, you must call him Rutland now:
An honest poor servant of yours.
wits and bearing too? A pox o' your bottle!
I saw our party to their trenches driven,
O earth, I will befriend thee more with rain,
Wert thou the devil, and worest it on thy horn,
prithee, call in Falstaff: I'll play Percy, and
Not for my life: but yet I dare defend
Enter a Messenger
For it is you that have chalk'd forth the way
How now sir! is your merry humour alter'd?
conceived against your son, there is no fitter
Or murmuring 'Where's my serpent of old Nile?'
Disarm them, and let them question: let them keep
I will from henceforth rather be myself,
From over-credulous haste: but God above
me asleep, for I am very heavy?
When she did starve the general world beside
'Item: She is not to be kissed fasting in respect
Unto a ragged fearful-hanging rock
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN
Given Hydra here to choose an officer,
Stand back, Lord Salisbury, stand back, I say;
This is no answer, thou unfeeling man,
Fairest Cordelia, that art most rich, being poor;
Say not we brought it.
Well, you may fear too far.
The worthy fellow is our general: he's the rock, the
make title to as much love as she finds: there is
Noise within
At which, like unback'd colts, they prick'd
And lend my best attention. What's thy name?
Of noble minds is honourable meed.
Drawing her aside
Proud lord, thou liest:
The Athenians both within and out that wall!
Your oaths are pass'd; and now subscribe your names,
Unless you please to enter in the castle
Music ceases
My sons' sweet blood will make it shame and blush.
Why, when, I say? Nay, good sweet Kate, be merry.
mere want of gold, and the falling-from of his
I would adventure.
open all our proceedings. O, I could divide myself
My learn'd and well-beloved servant, Cranmer,
My remedy is then, to pluck it out.
Madam, to you as many and as good:
The fresh springs, brine-pits, barren place and fertile:
talking of her.
please you,
Do the boys carry it away?
But in the night or in the time of war.
Will I upon thy party wear this rose:
[To IAGO]  O Spartan dog,
ACT V
So, come, help: well struck! there was blow for blow.
Of this diseased opinion, and betimes;
You will be shamed for ever.
That which he is, new o'er: and he is one
Full fifteen earls and fifteen hundred knights,
When it is paid, bring your true friend along.
When I have envied thy behavior.
We tread upon, and never think of it.
The rest were ragged, old, and beggarly;
Exeunt
'Tis midnight, Charles;
I am to learn;
But long I will not be Jack out of office:
defied not: and, I am sure, as many as have good
I will respect thee as a father if
And climb the highest promontory top.
Against our borrowing prayers.
the count, have I run into this danger. Yet who
I go to certify her Talbot's here.
A noble duke, in nature as in name.
What, think you then the king shall be deposed?
The bishop will be overborne by thee:
Thou strikest not me, 'tis Caesar thou defeat'st.
Between their births.
And in the most exact regard support
him: if you would not, it were a good sign
I cannot give it vital growth again.
Come, give me your flowers, ere the sea mar it.
Well, happiness to their sheets! Come, lieutenant, I
And that my sword upon thee shall approve,
As doth the raven o'er the infected house,
Perhaps thy childishness will move him more
for the gift: the other is not a thing for sale,
Whose deadly web ensnareth thee about?
Come, sir; come, sir; come, sir; foh, sir! Why, you
And now I should not lie, but will deserve
[Aside]  He was an honest man, and a good
did thy master part with Madam Julia?
Ere they lack'd power to cross you.
I'll go with thee:
You were disguised.
What now, Lucilius! is Cassius near?
Tread not upon him. Masters all, be quiet;
This curlish knot of all-abhorred war?
He did behave his anger, ere 'twas spent,
The wager thou hast won; and I will add
Exceeding the nine sibyls of old Rome:
Exit
A mess of Russians left us but of late.
Who!
Have you, I say, an answer of such fitness for all
Thou hast the odds of me; therefore no more.
surgere,' thou know'st,--
should have swinged me. If I did not think it had
If he do, the rich shall have more.
He shall appear in proof.
Both disobedience and ingratitude
next month? and are they not some of them set
When once he was mature for man,
And do some service to Duke Humphrey's ghost.
Exeunt
Most noble sir, arise; the queen approaches:
To slay his daughter with his own right hand,
Let me alone. Dost thou use to write thy name? or
But what he did being childish?
This is a sleepy tune. O murderous slumber,
The bay-trees in our country are all wither'd
satisfy my opinion, and partly for the satisfaction,
crooked face at it. I can't say your worships have
With a more riotous appetite.
Ascend, fair queen, Pantheon. Lords, accompany
loves not the common people.
As makes it light or heavy in the substance,
But for these instances.
a-hungry, to challenge him the field, and then to
Rome and her rats are at the point of battle;
Into the channel, till the lowest stream
There are that dare; and I myself have ventured
And this brave fellow too, we are the grains:
I am a subject fit to jest withal,
Now to the bottom dost thou search my wound:
Exit
the ministers.
Which neither here I'll keep nor bear again,
And for my soul, what can it do to that,
Good faith, and when I met this holy man,
And when this hail some heat from Hermia felt,
Obedience, which you owe your father. For
Sir, sir, be patient.
Walk in the orchard and our whole discourse
And threatened me with death, going in the vault,
For it is parting from us:
Now, Signior Petruchio, how speed you with my daughter?
With bag and baggage: many thousand on's
So tender over his occasions, true,
The hand that hath made you fair hath made you good:
And mine a sad one.
Look ye draw home enough, and 'tis there straight.
Let's hear him, for the things he speaks
So come to you and yours, as to this Prince!
To have me out of Egypt, made wars here;
Am I or that or this for what he'll utter,
Exeunt
We will before the walls of Rome tomorrow
A very forward March-chick! How came you to this?
Such love must needs be treason in my breast:
What, had he so?
And they thy glory through my grief will show:
Or we will plague thee with incessant wars.
Things that, to hear them told, have made me tremble;
Without the peril of the Athenian law.
Stand, villain, stand, or I'll fell thee down. He
Pray, uncle Gloucester, mitigate this strife.
Lord of York's armour.
God for his mercy, what treachery is here!
Cry 'holla' to thy tongue, I prithee; it curvets
The mouse ne'er shunn'd the cat as they did budge
the princess; I say none so fit as to present the
And men are flesh and blood, and apprehensive;
Unto an enemy of craft and vantage,
And be not easily won to our request:
Enter SEBASTIAN
Skim milk, and sometimes labour in the quern
But there is no such man: for, brother, men
I came to kill thee, cousin, and bear hence
Enter CLIFFORD
if in our youths we could pick up some pretty
To them to use your signet and your name;
Well, go, prepare yourself.
Upon my daughter's head! Tell me, mine own.
Madam, you must come to your uncle. Yonder's old
With all your just proceedings in this cause.
ACT IV
Enter a Post
And that dead saint which then I weeping follow'd;
Peter! what more?
Therefore give out you are of Epidamnum,
Comes fast upon. Good my brother Troilus,
others to the inns of court; down with them all.
Being unprepared,
And when Love speaks, the voice of all the gods
Begot of nothing but vain fantasy,
Art not one?
That wear those colours on them: what art thou,
But you, Sir Thurio, are not sharp enough;
O Hamlet, speak no more:
Look bleak i' the cold wind: withal, full oft we see
were better my mother had not borne me: I am very
Lest Hector or my father should perceive me,
poor creature of earth.
Hast thou no suit against my knight, my
[Aside to CLARENCE]  He plies her hard; and much rain
Both suffer under this complaint we bring,
Soft! take me with you, take me with you, wife.
me smile, make Hector angry?
Nay, Sir Nicholas,
Remembrance of my father-in-law, the duke,
Mark him and write his speeches in their books,
When the best hint was given him, he not took't,
O deadly gall, and theme of all our scorns!
The curiosity of nations to deprive me,
The imperial Caesar, should again unite
I cannot come to Cressid but by Pandar;
honesty to acquaint the king withal, I would not
Enter CORIN
To acquaint you with this evil, that you might
For want of means, poor rats, had hang'd themselves:
By fountain clear, or spangled starlight sheen,
A thousand pounds by the year: thus runs the bill.
Exit
Women and children of so high a courage,
To kindle their dry stubble; and their blaze
Long live the king!
What is it?
To his great master; who, thereat enraged,
Nor hold the sceptre in his childish fist,
comforting therein, that when old robes are worn
Not a more cowardly rogue in all Bohemia: if you had
Let him come in.
Evades them, with a bombast circumstance
I see a yielding in the looks of France;
And, might we lay the old proverb to your charge,
Stands on a tickle point, now they are gone:
Vile earth, to earth resign; end motion here;
Hast cleansed my bosom, I from thee departed
Pray, what is't?
Or, at the least, make them his enemies.
thought not good to bruise an injury till it were
Fetch him off, I pray you; he speaks nothing but
Conduct me to the queen.
By the Athenian garments he hath on.
As foolery in the wise, when wit doth dote;
The sheep for fodder follow the shepherd; the
Lovers in peace, lead on our days to age!
virtue to practise his judgment with the disposition
Giving a paper
O! O! O!
First told me thou wast mad; then camest in smiling,
though, I'll be sworn, if he be so, his conceit is
The prescript of this scroll: our fortune lies
Thanks, i' faith, for silence is only commendable
Think I am dead and that even here thou takest,
That longing have been sick for, ere I'ld yield
Nay, stay; lets hear the orisons he makes.
Room for six scotches more.
I would I had your bond, for I perceive
Come, sir, your passado.
As, first, good company, good wine, good welcome,
Take my deserts to his, and join 'em both:
And you have slander'd nature in my form,
Please it your lordship, he hath put me off
In honour of a true Plantagenet
Come on assay. There's one gone to the harbour?
[Aside to CLARENCE]  Ay, widow? then I'll warrant
As wealth is burden of my wooing dance,
A dangerous rhyme, master, against the reason of
Well then, sustain him: O!
I fear the emperor means no good to us.
Under the shade of melancholy boughs,
Tent in my cheeks, and schoolboys' tears take up
Foh! one may smell in such a will most rank,
There is no primer business.
If e'er thou wast thyself and these woes thine,
woman after this downright way of creation: is it
Revel and feast it at my house to-day,
You, sirrah, provide your block and your axe
An they will take it, so; if not, he's plain.
Your mother came to Sicily and did find
Which now the house of Lancaster usurps,
It is an attribute to God himself;
but I thought there was more in him than I could think.
This is strange to me.
To number Ave-Maries on his beads;
And brought with armed men back to Messina.
As from her lord, her governor, her king.
sending that way; for it is said, 'God sends a curst
More than my dancing soul doth celebrate
A hand as fruitful as the land that feeds us;
Of thy sharp envy. Can no prayers pierce thee?
It is now two o'clock: but, let me see, by ten
Either thou wilt die, by God's just ordinance,
N'avez vous pas deja oublie ce que je vous ai enseigne?
Lucius!
When the sun shines let foolish gnats make sport,
Take special care my greetings be deliver'd.
Another bear the ewer, the third a diaper,
To-morrow, Caesar,
Infect the sound pine and divert his grain
good nor harm: but he seeks their hate with greater
I have been, madam, a wicked creature, as you and
She should have bought her dignities so dear.
wisely, wisely.
Horrible steep.
is three studied, ere ye'll thrice wink: and how
Why, that's well said. Go, get you to my house;
Yet I will favour thee in what I can.
that say so of him. Who are they?
Would testify, to enrich mine inventory.
he could not compass.
Gentlemen all, I do suspect this trash
DON
I ask, that I might waken reverence,
However God or fortune cast my lot,
O' the dreadful thunder-claps, more momentary
Or else return no more into my sight.
like brothers and worship me their lord.
For he went sickly forth: and take good note
Have I pluck'd off, to grace thy brows withal:
Circumstantial and the Lie Direct.
Found truth in all but one: I, in twelve thousand, none.
How long is't now since last yourself and I
Ay, sir, and done too, for this time.
She'll hamper thee, and dandle thee like a baby:
Whiles I in Ireland nourish a mighty band,
But thou shalt have; and creep time ne'er so slow,
The last was I that helped thee to the crown;
Mine honour'd lady!
What is the issue of the business there.
The gods look down, and this unnatural scene
Gentle son Edward, thou wilt stay with me?
hereafter, rather than story him in his own hearing.
For your behoof,--
comes there any more of it?
Enough to make a whore forswear her trade,
'Tis thought you have a goodly gift in horning;
It is enthroned in the hearts of kings,
she wished me: alone she was, and did communicate
Constringed in mass by the almighty sun,
To find the mind's construction in the face:
I am no fee'd post, lady; keep your purse:
turn, or the breaking of my Spanish sword.
And dip their napkins in his sacred blood,
But O,--but O,--
I had been writ down an ass!
What, have you given him any hard words of late?
Methinks I play as I have seen them do
Your roof were not sufficient to contain't.
are: but precise villains they are, that I am sure
To kill us here in Hampton: to the which
Wherein my grandsire and my father sat?
she was quartered. They fell on; I made good my
so many, like brothers, commanding one another's
And were you well advised?
Exeunt
Which I must needs call mine: thou art a boil,
Unto my mother's prayers I bend my knee.
Exit
RICHARD
in hand in sad conference: I whipt me behind the
In the unpartial judging of this business.
Thieves for their robbery have authority
PROLOGUE
As well as speak--it tauntingly replied
Go thou to Juliet, help to deck up her;
full of vent. Peace is a very apoplexy, lethargy;
Hark, how our steeds for present service neigh!
They pass over the stage in order and state
in music and mathematics: his name is Cambio; pray,
of silver: there would this monster make a
Now, presently: bid them come forth and hear me,
If you misdoubt me that I am not she,
King Richard, he is in the mighty hold
Our will is Antony be took alive;
For hateful deeds committed by myself!
Now I am alone.
Meet to be sent on errands: is it fit,
Madam,
That for our gold we may provision have,
Be valiant and give signal to the fight.
ANTIPHOLUS
In a sweet verbal brief, it did concern
His fits, his frenzy, and his bitterness?
So early waking, what with loathsome smells,
Even of yourself, lord cardinal.
To change the course: he's full of alteration
Out, hyperbolical fiend! how vexest thou this man!
March sadly after; grace my mournings here;
Re-enter Clown with a letter, and FABIAN
Ghost unlaid forbear thee!
He fell upon me ere admitted: then
Cannot remove nor choke the strong conception
This is not Brutus, friend; but, I assure you,
Is not Prince Troilus here?
When I have laid proud Athens on a heap,--
Thou shalt be free
Ah, who is nigh? come to me, friend or foe,
I cannot think you are my son.
We did believe no less.
In Warwickshire I have true-hearted friends,
A better never did itself sustain
Exit
Caesar's.
way:
I saw good strawberries in your garden there
touching the hit it?
Report thy parentage. I think thou said'st
now is he become a man: he swore he would never
Some one way, some another. Do you know
A Talbot! a Talbot! cried out amain
Bardolph, follow him. A tapster is a good trade:
That it becomes a virtue.
Exit with the body
But he already is too insolent;
Enter, below, BRABANTIO, and Servants with torches
But to the earth some special good doth give,
Condemns you to the death. See them deliver'd over
There is besides in Roderigo's letter,
I'll not be long behind; though I be old,
Let me have audience for a word or two:
For my great suit so easily obtain'd.
the rooms of them that have bought out their
That which so often you did bid me steal.
had been thoroughly moved, you should have heard him
To-morrow shall you know our mind at full.
Enter SHYLOCK, SALARINO, ANTONIO, and Gaoler
Take that, and mend the plucking off the other.
Trouble yourselves no further: pray you, hasten
And the offender's life lies in the mercy
That thou attend me: thou dost here usurp
'Twere well
Pray heaven it be not so, that you have such a man
For heaven now bids me; and the words I utter
And am right glad he is not standing here
For I am sick when I do look on thee.
rash; then must we look to receive from his age,
Wherefore to Dover? Wast thou not charged at peril--
Arthur doth live; the king hath sent for you.
Away, and for our flight.
winds and rocks. The man is, notwithstanding,
forbid I should be so bold to press to heaven in my
Come, go with us; speak fair: you may salve so,
Is all the counsel that we two have shared,
Exit
As fast as mill-wheels strike. Then was this island--
Exit
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus and DROMIO of Ephesus
With most delicious poison. Think on me,
comes to fight.
stands the man; good; if the man go to this water,
In wholesome manner.
Well, madam, and in health.
His captain, steward, deputy-elect,
Her words do show her wit incomparable;
Have blown me full of maggot ostentation:
an ox, were nothing; he is both ox and ass. To be a
your kingdom. To-morrow shall I beg leave to see
To overbulk us all.
Such valour in the bearing, what make we
Out of this silence yet I pick'd a welcome;
These happen'd accidents; till when, be cheerful
DON
He is gone happy, and has left me rich:
As God's own soldier, rounded in the ear
Swoons rather; for so bad a prayer as his
Coventry with them, that's flat: nay, and the
Till time and I think meet.
And he, and more
By unkind usage, dangerous countenance,
A pair of cursed hell-hounds and their dam!
And see the holy edifice of stone,
Containing the deposing of a king
Can sleep so soundly as the wretched slave,
Fight for your king, your country and your lives;
To try her gracious fortune with Lord Angelo
Of him that caused it.
Whereof the king my brother stood possess'd.
happily effected.
What country, friends, is this?
Yea, are you so brief?
A bridegroom say you? 'tis a groom indeed,
If I thought that, I tell thee, homicide,
Hark! he is arrived.
What, John! What, Robert!
The old proverb is very well parted between my
should be lamed with reasons and the other mad
A long-tongued babbling gossip? no, lords, no:
What's here? one dead, or drunk? See, doth he breathe?
Call, good Mercutio.
Whither?
Should grieve thee more than streams of foreign gore:
them: on the instant they got clear of our ship; so
The drink, the drink! I am poison'd.
A bold brave gentleman. That should be
Have I enjoy'd the golden dew of sleep,
The way is but short: away!
To burn the errors that these princes hold
With too much urging your pernicious lives,
The epitaph is for Marina writ
Now fair befall your mask!
What vice is that, good Troilus? chide me for it.
No, you shall paint when you are old.
To set a form upon that indigest
She shall not see me: I will ensconce me behind the arras.
Prague, that never saw pen and ink, very wittily
See, where he stands between two clergymen!
as any is between this and his head; he hath fought
One of their kind, that relish all as sharply,
Alas, my lord,
slept in the contriving of lust, and waked to do it:
Nay, by Saint Jamy,
Was that mine?
Let fall thy lance: despair, and die!
But I am shepherd to another man
That plays thee music? Gentle knave, good night;
Who ever yet could sound thy bottom? find
'Twixt right and wrong, for pleasure and revenge
Dark-working sorcerers that change the mind,
Where it may see itself. This is not strange at all.
Re-enter BARDOLPH with sack
Why, here walk I in the black brow of night,
An ordinary groom is for such payment.
Didst thou not mark the king, what words he spake,
His bark is stoutly timber'd, his pilot
If thou dost love, pronounce it faithfully:
Like to the empty ass, to shake his ears,
What dreadful noise of waters in mine ears!
My mind she has mated, and amazed my sight.
morning, but as a madman's epistles are no gospels,
I do beg your good will in this case.
Because the king, forsooth, will have it so.
what is 'that' but 'that,' and 'is' but 'is'?
And gratulate his safe return to Rome,
The cause of our expedience to the queen,
Nor Cymbeline dreams that they are alive.
One of her women lawyer to me, for
Where have you left the money that I gave you?
England, thou hast not saved one drop of blood,
Enter the DUCHESS in a white sheet, and a taper  burning in her hand; with STANLEY, the Sheriff, and Officers
Some mumble-news, some trencher-knight, some Dick,
Came to my tent, and cried on victory:
I'll come to you anon.
As mine own face. If there be cords, or knives,
Who deserves greatness
The commoners, for whom we stand, but they
No face is fair that is not full so black.
Infirmity doth still neglect all office
Nay, good master parson, keep in your weapon.
To give a kingdom for a mirth; to sit
Dashes the fire out. O, I have suffered
To bathe my lips upon; this hand, whose touch,
For 'tis a bond in men. Give him thy daughter:
When I am buried. Since Frenchmen are so braid,
I know you two are rival enemies:
I remember thine eyes well enough. Dost thou squiny
'Tis monstrous. Iago, who began't?
My worthy friends, will you draw near?
That we can call these delicate creatures ours,
And give my tongue-tied sorrows leave to speak.
Falling on Diomed.
thou to curse thus?
As thou canst yield a melancholy seat!
Like Turkish mute, shall have a tongueless mouth,
No new device to beat this from his brains?
And, like a mountain cedar, reach his branches
With his own hand did slay his youngest son,
I charge thee, hence, and do not haunt me thus.
You have seen and proved a fairer former fortune
Drum and colours. Enter MENTEITH, CAITHNESS, ANGUS, LENNOX, and Soldiers
Between us and the emperor, the queen's great nephew,
I faint almost to death.
And worship this dull fool!
'Tis likely,
Hath turn'd itself on me lo, here I lie,
Ye appear in every thing may bring my ruin!
in your air.
Devised at first to keep the strong in awe:
I'll show you here at large. Hark, good mine host.
Make this his latest farewell to their souls.
I tell thee, Catesby--
of my complexion. Besides, she uses me with a more
Nor never more in Russian habit wait.
And, noble uncle, I beseech your grace
Directive by the limbs.
Good cousins both, of York and Somerset,
We let the people know't.
And at our more consider'd time well read,
I thought to have ta'en you at the Porpentine:
Henry is able to enrich his queen
Himself love's traitor: this is pity now,
Thou hadst a Richard, till a Richard killed him;
hope, an old man, shall frutify unto you--
Yet if thou say Antony lives, is well,
That shall be scoured in his rancorous heart
Bequeathed down from many ancestors;
death have good inspirations: therefore the lottery,
I took him to be killed with a thunder-stroke. But
cuckold. Come to me soon at night.
The levied succors that should lend him aid,
The ghost of Caesar hath appear'd to me
Presence majestical would put him out,
Than their bare hands.
O Cassius, I am sick of many griefs.
And yet thy tongue will not confess thy error.
a youth is not for me, and he that is less than a
By all the laws of war you're privileged.
Health and fair time of day; joy and good wishes
Que dit-il? que je suis semblable a les anges?
I have done enough; a lower place, note well,
Come, come;
Shall wait upon your father's funeral.
Excuse me so, coming too short of thanks
memory, nourished in the womb of pia mater, and
Swear, if thou darest.
May enter 'twixt the gap of both and take
But yesterday the word of Caesar might
Out of a new-sad soul, that you vouchsafe
When I have spoke of you dispraisingly,
An army cannot rule 'em.
Prithee, keep up thy quillets. There's a poor piece
And that shall lend a kind of easiness
With these mortals on the ground.
May cease their hatred, and this dear conjunction
congregation, shame her with what he saw o'er night
come, come.
'Sblood, you starveling, you elf-skin, you dried
Thy oath remember; thou hast sworn to do't:
My wife, more careful for the latter-born,
Away! what art thou?
Enter KING HENRY VI, GLOUCESTER, BISHOP OF  WINCHESTER, YORK, SUFFOLK, SOMERSET, WARWICK, TALBOT, EXETER, the Governor, of Paris, and others
Discourse, I prithee, on this turret's top.
Not to woo honour, but to wed it; when
Nay, good Sir Toby.
Know, good mother,
Undoing all, as all had never been!
that is the breff and the long. Marry, I wad full
At sea in childbed died she, but brought forth
No, I know that: but it is fit I should commit
Of Jove himself; and now reigns here
themselves without the verse and therefore stood
Thou shamest to acknowledge me in misery.
Plays fondly with her tears and smiles in meeting,
The world was very guilty of such a ballad some
against May.
To hang Cordelia in the prison, and
A child-like office.
And, for that dowry, I'll assure her of
And worms will not come to thee.
Do so, it is a point of wisdom: fare you well.
you, trippingly on the tongue: but if you mouth it,
dined with him, and told him on't, and come again to
Exit Messenger
Because I ever found them as myself.
O Lord, I would it had been two!
save your word.
For 'tis no trusting to yond foolish lout,
And then will I be general of your woes,
Though rebels wound thee with their horses' hoofs:
And yet shalt thou be safe? such safety finds
A murder, which I thought a sacrifice:
That livest to make thine honesty a vice!
What beast! why, an otter.
When thou wakest, if she be by,
She hath had too much wrong; and I repent
Make me to think so twenty years together!
Come, fellow-soldier, make thou proclamation.
Creeps in this petty pace from day to day
From Milan.
She turn'd to folly, and she was a whore.
Now the gods keep you!
Most true; the law shall bruise him.
Such friends are thine enemies, knave.
And lie full low, graved in the hollow ground.
Was stabb'd with bloody daggers: God, I pray him,
Let us, Lepidus,
he fell. When he came to himself again, he said,
footboy or a gentleman's lackey.
But, worthy lords, have you with heed perused
SCENE II. The same.
Trim sport for them that had the doing of it.
Alarums to the fight, wherein SIR HUMPHREY and WILLIAM STAFFORD are slain. Enter CADE and the rest
As now our flesh is banish'd from this land:
For 'tis a sore upon us,
Fraught with the ministers and instruments
Art thou gone so? love, lord, ay, husband, friend!
SCENE V. A room in the Garter Inn.
into more work. But, indeed, sir, we make holiday,
Amen.
Should hazard such a place as his own second
Stands in worse case of woe.
That Richard be restored to his blood.
Have the patricians of you. For your wants,
Never departed more.
I know not that, when he knows what I know.
Save these in bonds: let them be joyful too,
This, and all else
To accuse this worthy man, but, in foul mouth
Enter QUEEN MARGARET
This is the sergeant
Your carriage from the court. My noble mistress,
You and your fellows; I'll have it come to question:
upward, and all was as cold as any stone.
Much like to you, for you have just his bleat.
How hast thou offended?
Grows, lives and dies in single blessedness.
ANTIPHOLUS
With some more ducats, and be with you straight.
a vice in her ears, which horse-hairs and
Portia, adieu. I have too grieved a heart
None does offend, none, I say, none; I'll able 'em:
The fardel there? what's i' the fardel?
lamentable divorce under her colours are wonderfully
I fear, I fear,--
That's curdied by the frost from purest snow
he abides.
Away with the dotard! to the gaol with him!
Among my wife and her confederates,
Upon a soldier's thigh: I have seen the day,
Your faults as they are named. Use well our father:
I do well believe your highness; and
A heavy summons lies like lead upon me,
I'll take thy word for faith, not ask thine oath:
Believe me, king of shadows, I mistook.
And coughing drowns the parson's saw
Then shall Hector be whipped for Jaquenetta that is
Exit
By Juno, I swear, ay.
So shall you bind me to your highness' service.
boast of them. Come, warble, come.
To do observance to a morn of May,
Arise, and take place by us: half your suit
Because your lordship was proclaimed traitor.
And be false with them.
This will I send, and something else more plain,
My life, sir, in any case: not that I am afraid to
How now, my noble friend! since I came hither,
O no, he lives; but is took prisoner,
Or with light skirmishes enfeebled.
Thou hast, Sebastian, done good feature shame.
Exeunt LANCASTER and WESTMORELAND
And so had mine.
O brother, speak with possibilities,
O heavenly powers, restore him!
Think him a great way fool, solely a coward;
done? It must be a very plausive invention that
she know me not: if she say I am not fourteen pence
Amongst your cloven army.
His eyes are humbler than they used to be.
And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
You use me well, Master Ford, do you?
I would have had you put your power well on,
At home, upon my brother's guard, even there,
Let's ha't, good Grumio.
prithee, be gone.
In that respect, then, like a loving child,
O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs!
To you alone.
Madam, it so fell out, that certain players
Be soft as sinews of the newborn babe!
This foolish, dreaming, superstitious girl
She married. O, most wicked speed, to post
By the apostle Paul, shadows to-night
Luke's, to bid the priest be ready to come against
Yes; 'tis the list
No farther, sir; a man may rot even here.
The proffer'd means of succor and redress.
What trick, what device, what starting-hole, canst
Wherein hath Caesar thus deserved your loves?
So tell the pope, all reverence set apart
and had my pocket picked: this house is turned
Nay, a' rubs himself with civet: can you smell him
O, let me stay,
They do not mark me, and that brings me out.
And rape, I fear, was root of thine annoy.
Lewis marry Blanch! O boy, then where art thou?
Sings
What shall become of this? what will this do?
it ish give over: I would have blowed up the town, so
For, look, he smiles, and Caesar doth not change.
And minister in their steads! to general filths
And perish ye, with your audacious prate!
Do right unto this princely Duke of York,
would think a smock were a she-angel, he so chants
He'll tell me all his purpose: sure, he'll come.
As great in blood as I myself.--
To Servant
Rather than bloody war shall cut them short,
Be patient till the last.
man, and signifies love.
The good gods me presently,
Indeed, brother-in-law was the farthest off you
Beat--
By any in this presence, I desire
very conveyances of his lands will hardly lie in
Or fortune given me measure of revenge.
To the contrary I have express commandment.
These likelihoods confirm her flight from hence.
Plays such fantastic tricks before high heaven
Hark, Ventidius.
testiness, shall turn all into my commendations. My
Shall witness to him I am near at home,
And joy comes well in such a needy time:
For they have entertained cause enough
But, in the cutting it, if thou dost shed
That look not like the inhabitants o' the earth,
You shall have any thing.
They shall, Nerissa; but in such a habit,
Is thither gone, to crave the French king's sister
For thus deluding you.
Ah, when the means are gone that buy this praise,
They willfully themselves exile from light
For the embracements even of Jove himself;
With hope to find the like event in love,
Die, perish! Might but my bending down
To RICHMOND
To go with Paris to Saint Peter's Church,
I am sure you know him well enough.
But not a sceptre to control the world:
O Clitus!
By having him, making yourself no less.
Have shaken Edward from the regal seat,
SCENE VII. Rome. A public place.
How easily murder is discovered!
I warrant you, mistress, thunder shall not so awake
To praise him more than ever man did merit:
To reave the orphan of his patrimony,
For love of God, forbear him.
I am in all affected as yourself;
Plague him with flies: though that his joy be joy,
And he requires your haste-post-haste appearance,
And meteors fright the fixed stars of heaven;
The wheel is come full circle: I am here.
How now! do you hear this?
You are still crossing it. Sirs, let't alone:
When the suspicious head of theft is stopp'd:
And therefore in this city will I stay
Enter CADE and the rest, and strikes his staff on London-stone
Live, and be prosperous: and farewell, good fellow.
Good madam,--
A face without a heart?
It should the good ship so have swallow'd and
You that thus far have come to pity me,
To make a bloody supper in the Tower.
Go, Faulconbridge: now hast thou thy desire;
So are the horses of the enemy
Diana's rangers false themselves, yield up
Reigns solely in the breast of every man:
Thus plated in habiliments of war,
estimations; the one is but frail and the other
not peep: an if thou darest,
And justice always whirls in equal measure:
Not Isabel?
would say so.
Smacks it not something of the policy?
O my lord,
Is overthrown by noble Brutus' power,
As you that thus abuse me.
Undo that prayer, by crying out as loud,
Here lie I down, and measure out my grave. Farewell,
Who wanting guilders to redeem their lives
Killing care and grief of heart
Ha! 'tis he, indeed:
And yet we hear no tidings from the king;
Welcome, good Cambio.
To snare the nimble marmoset; I'll bring thee
Were in a mask?
Against thy deity.
Say that I slew them not?
My stooping duty tenderly shall show.
Not to see ladies, study, fast, not sleep!
A love that makes breath poor, and speech unable;
No, believe me.
To free us from his father's wrathful curse,
How say you, madam, are ye so content?
O, that the slave had forty thousand lives!
Say, wast thou e'er contracted to this woman?
Her pretty action did outsell her gift,
There's nothing I have done yet, o' my conscience,
As gifts to Desdemona;
furnished like a beggar, therefore to beg will not
Who steals my purse steals trash; 'tis something, nothing;
I think it well, my lord.
Though I should swear I saw't: 'tis very much:
ANTIPHOLUS
As 'tis to laugh at 'em. My mother, you wot well
I wish no better
Which might be felt; that we, the poorer born,
Without the help of any hand at all.
Will make him fly an ordinary pitch,
The eye wink at the hand; yet let that be,
Most like a careful subject, have collected
Here, Marcus, fold it in the oration;
Exeunt all but Boy
Let me but move one question to your daughter;
Those that we bury back, our monuments
And chop away that factious pate of his.
I had rather you did lack than I, my lord,
They quite forget their loss of liberty.
Good Rapine, stab him; he's a ravisher.
God save the king!
'If once he come to be a cardinal,
That we are those which chased you from the field
For your fit welcome. Give ear, sir, to my sister;
Good night, good brother.
Shall that victorious hand be feebled here,
And from the mart he's somewhere gone to dinner.
Whether I live or die, be you the sons
methinks they are such a gentle nation that, but for
I am, my lord, a wretched Florentine,
For this advertisement is five days old:
Of being taken by the insolent foe
You sign your place and calling, in full seeming,
Saw ye none enter since I slept?
Exeunt
Reads
lief Helen's golden tongue had commended Troilus for
No, madam; for so long
O plague and madness!
Than twenty times your stop: but, O vain boast!
cause. A word, my lord.
Nay, but be wise: yet we see nothing done;
Your name, your quality? and why you answer
Enter CYMBELINE, QUEEN, CLOTEN, LUCIUS, Lords, and Attendants
'The duke yet lives, that Henry shall depose;
You that are honest, by being what you are,
I know not what I shall incur to pass it,
Where wilt thou lead me? speak; I'll go no further.
Nor mine, my lord: Cressid was here but now.
natures more than is native to them--list me. The
O' Thursday let it be: o' Thursday, tell her,
That only Warwick's daughter shall be thine.
Marshal, demand of yonder champion
Re-enter LUCIUS, with the gown
thousand years I could stay no longer. Wherefore,
Part, fools!
Myself and my good cousin Buckingham
Which death or absence soon shall remedy.
on him, I charge you, in the duke's name. O, my
That would reduce these bloody days again,
The powers that he already hath in Gallia
What, didst thou offer her this from me?
Giving him a chain from her neck
There's something in't,
Till o'er their brows death-counterfeiting sleep
poor woman.
O, then, beware;
Let Henry fret and all the world repine.
To have it of my trust or for my sake.
A pound of flesh, to be by him cut off
Barkloughly castle call they this at hand?
I have some private schooling for you both.
Wrench his sword from him.
O, be removed from him, and answer well!
And art almost an alien to the hearts
I look down towards his feet; but that's a fable.
Not to seem senseless of the bob: if not,
Come, good Lorenzo. Fare ye well awhile:
Lucius, all hail, Rome's royal emperor!
Yoke-fellow to his honour-owing wounds,
Well, Mistress Ford; what of her?
It was about to speak, when the cock crew.
and the bear mocked him, both roaring louder than
My lord, wise men ne'er sit and wail their woes,
Exit
Hoping you'll find good cause to whip them all.
Where fathom-line could never touch the ground,
Her army is moved on.
Alarum: excursions, wherein JOHN TALBOT is hemmed about, and TALBOT rescues him
I am, in this, commanded to deliver
O, bid me leap, rather than marry Paris,
How now! a madman! Why, thou peevish sheep,
Dower'd with our curse, and stranger'd with our oath,
Was sent to by my brother; one Lucio
Whereto our health is bound; we are not ourselves
To whip this dwarfish war, these pigmy arms,
He receives comfort like cold porridge.
Or else a wit by folly vanquished.
Sheathes his sword
Upon the dull earth dwelling:
Like to a step-dame or a dowager
extremity of the one, it must needs be.
Fulvia thy wife is dead.
Sir, if you'ld save your life, fly to your house:
If broken then, it is no fault of mine:
O, cut my lace, lest my heart, cracking it,
I do desire it.
And they have been grand-jury-men since before Noah
Now for the honour of the forlorn French!
Cannot take two from twenty, for his heart,
Pass the remainder of our hateful days?
I am not sorry neither: I'ld have thee live;
Where having nothing, nothing can he lose.
To Dorothy my woman hie thee presently--
In those unfledged days was my wife a girl;
what metal this counterfeit lump of ore will be
More sharp than this is.
late stood out against your brother, and he hath
Shall I be your playfellow?
Mine honour's such a ring:
If wives do fall: say that they slack their duties,
My Lord of Gloucester, now ye grow too hot:
And I'll still stay, to have thee still forget,
Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly; the Queen  embracing him, and he her. She kneels, and makes  show of protestation unto him. He takes her up,  and declines his head upon her neck: lays him down  upon a bank of flowers: she, seeing him asleep,  leaves him. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his  crown, kisses it, and pours poison in the King's  ears, and exit. The Queen returns; finds the King  dead, and makes passionate action. The Poisoner,  with some two or three Mutes, comes in again,  seeming to lament with her. The dead body is  carried away. The Poisoner wooes the Queen with  gifts: she seems loath and unwilling awhile, but in the end accepts his love
It is not so; for how can this be true,
Keeps thicket. Please it our great general
But are you sure
many friends as enemies; which friends, sir, as it
She says enough; yet she's a simple bawd
smallest article of it, neither in time, matter, or
As puts me from my faith. I tell you what;
The sums I have collected shall express.
The worst fault you have is to be in love.
To serve me well, you all should do me duty,
To see how inly sorrow gripes his soul.
Of which, my lord, your honour is the last.
Unlocks the door
'pointed day.
Yes, truly is he, and condemn'd upon't.
My duty on your hand.
How can that be, unless she drowned herself in her
sure of it. To express the like kindness, myself,
heart to repent. Here he comes: I pray you, make
Enter FALSTAFF and BARDOLPH
not brown neither,--
The voice again, or, like a gate of steel
For what before it was.
Enter TROILUS and CRESSIDA
And with my hand at midnight held your head,
I'll tell thee more of this another time:
Kneeling
Aged contusions and all brush of time,
Not letting it decline on the declined,
But I will delve one yard below their mines,
By some sly trick blunt Thurio's dull proceeding.
There is a gentlewoman in this town; her husband's
They will bring all; whose spiritual counsel had,
That comes in triumph over Pompey's blood? Be gone!
Was deep-sworn faith, peace, amity, true love
Enter GLOUCESTER, BUCKINGHAM, DERBY, HASTINGS, and RATCLIFF
Thou monstrous injurer of heaven and earth!
Are you a woman?
Then fare thee well: I must go buy spices for our
me out of tune.
Nicanor? no.
Let Hercules himself do what he may,
In such a night
service, let us talk in good earnest: is it
periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to tatters, to
Who now reprovest me for it,--
But 'twas thy beauty that provoked me.
We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
My great profaneness 'gainst thine oracle!
The execution of my big-swoln heart
A mother less? or granted less, Aufidius?
has no more pity in him than a dog: a Jew would have
No, by this heavenly light!
If you opposed them. Sir, this report of his
Bring him through the bands.
Of your entire affection to Bianca;
Some say he is with the Emperor of Russia; other
Have you a working pulse? and are no fairy?
looking wildly, and would needs speak with you presently.
While I stand fooling here, his Jack o' the clock.
Ay, good youth!
Stop, stop! No help?
Draw, men, for all this privileged place;
Off with his head! Now, by Saint Paul I swear,
him above, his complexion is higher than his; he
That Paris is returned home and hurt.
When I inform'd him, then he call'd me sot,
Have you not set Lysander, as in scorn,
Poictiers and Anjou, these five provinces,
He craves a parley at your father's house,
Send for the man, and ask him.
Or by the worth of man's eternal soul,
I cry you mercy, uncle. By your grace's pardon.
Which he stood seized of, to the conqueror:
Requite him for your father.
What?
To make such means for her as thou hast done
Tell him, when that our princely father York
My lord, 'tis but begun.
Our lack is nothing but our leave; Macbeth
Against the walls of Athens.
So under Him that great supremacy,
My words are dull; O, quicken them with thine!
country, there be nothing compelled from the
Your brother--no, no brother; yet the son--
From her his dearest one,
Foul is most foul, being foul to be a scoffer.
We with our travels will endeavour us.
Enter two Sailors, one belonging to the Tyrian vessel, the other to the barge; to them HELICANUS
That have with two pernicious daughters join'd
thy pocket but tavern-reckonings, memorandums of
I hope so, Lepidus. Thus we are agreed:
You swore to that, Biron, and to the rest.
Monsieur Parolles.
take it in what sense thou wilt.
I, sir, am Dromio; command him away.
Exeunt
Lavinia, you are not displeased with this?
Pray you, let's to him.
Thou great defender of this Capitol,
Unfix his earth-bound root? Sweet bodements! good!
Your choice is not so rich in worth as beauty,
No hare, sir; unless a hare, sir, in a lenten pie,
I have a health for you.
To the very moment that he bade me tell it;
I am not well in health, and that is all.
Exit CRANMER
KING HENRY VIII kisses the child
Colleagued with the dream of his advantage,
Right joyous are we to behold your face,
for I must let you understand I think myself in
Exit
Where are my other men, monsieur? Farewell.
WARWICK and the rest cry all, 'Warwick! Warwick!'  and set upon the Guard, who fly, crying, 'Arm! arm!' WARWICK and the rest following them
Sir Valentine!
What never-dying honour hath he got
Exeunt SIR TOBY BELCH, SIR ANDREW, and MARIA
The measure then of one is easily told.
avouches the shepherd's son; who has not only his
by Sir Toby.
And why not the swift foot of Time? had not that
And shall, sir; give's your hand.
So indeed I did.
I will dispatch him to the emperor's court.
And when you find him evenly derived
I would the cutting of my garments would serve the
The Jove of power make me most weak, most weak,
But, sir, here comes your boy;
Why holds thine eye that lamentable rheum,
And so it is: I wonder what it bodes.
We do require them of you, so to use them
Thou shalt aby it.
Be quiet, or--More light, more light! For shame!
Salt Cleopatra, soften thy waned lip!
Art thou not Romeo and a Montague?
Big Mars seems bankrupt in their beggar'd host
Exit
To hear? or forbear laughing?
So her dead likeness, I do well believe,
Light wenches may prove plagues to men forsworn;
To hear true shrift. Come, madam, let's away.
Better do so than tarry and be hang'd.
ACT IV
We two will leave you: but at dinner-time,
Out of all eyes, tongues, minds and injuries.
My noble masters, hear me speak.
Nor knows he how to live but by the spoil,
'thus I would teach a dog.' I was sent to deliver
No, Bolingbroke: if ever I were traitor,
So I would not he should do me, my lord, lest I
First, he commends him to your noble lordship.
Brother, farewell.
Shall ill become the flower of England's face,
For that they will not intercept my tale:
Whose reverence even the head-lugg'd bear would lick,
Let the rest go.
And, breathless, power breathe forth.
Heavily, heavily.
Good company; with them shall Proteus go:
As Pompey was, am I compell'd to set
Ay, noble Titus; and resolved withal
Had he done so to great and growing men,
Never trust me, then; and by all means stir on the
Hic steterat Priami regia celsa senis.'
for any lady in Britain. If she went before others
He would have well becomed this place, and graced
Those centuries to our aid: the rest will serve
Then our office may,
For on thy fortune I repose myself.
And breathe short-winded accents of new broils
Flourish. Re-enter GLOUCESTER, with KING OF FRANCE, BURGUNDY, and Attendants
most homely shepherd; a man, they say, that from
And, like a shifted wind unto a sail,
SCENE III. Wilds in Gloucestershire.
Well, Juliet, I will lie with thee to-night.
Madam, here is a letter from my lord.
This hand hath made him proud with clapping him.
Collars of SS.
They are all fire and every one doth shine,
To break the heart of generosity,
I know you could not lack, I am certain on't,
that fretted in their own grease: think of that,--a
Of you, my gentle cousin Westmoreland,
Enter aloft SLY, with Attendants; some with apparel, others with basin and ewer and appurtenances; and Lord
Bless you, sir!
My soul and body on the action both!
Or nicely charge your understanding soul
How does my royal lord? How fares your majesty?
How know you that?
On sweetest flowers, yet they poison breed.
No, thou stand'st single, thou'rt not on him yet.
But you must trouble him with lewd complaints.
thy hand, celestial; so. Boys of art, I have
Some say the lark makes sweet division;
Gave me my being and my father first,
either good or bad, but thinking makes it so: to me
As for my sons, say I account of them
Look I so pale, Lord Dorset, as the rest?
The will of heaven be done, and the king's pleasure
Until the duke take order for his burial:
And carriage of the article design'd,
I will never take you for my love again; but I will
By my troth, 's but a night-gown in respect of
Exeunt
You have defended me from imminent death.
Not so, my lord; I am too much i' the sun.
Drop on you both! a south-west blow on ye
Exeunt
Who with mine eyes, never since at ebb, beheld
I took him sleeping,--that is finish'd too,--
The which you both denied.
But wherefore grieve I at an hour's poor loss,
Whose sting is sharper than the sword's;
And kiss thy fair large ears, my gentle joy.
Do you withdraw yourself a little while,
Cordelia, Cordelia! stay a little. Ha!
Enter the WARWICK and SALISBURY
These roguing thieves serve the great pirate Valdes;
Of stirs abroad, I shall beseech you, sir,
That drug-damn'd Italy hath out-craftied him,
Good morrow, Alexander. How do you, cousin? When
I dare not stand by; nor shall you be safer
These ears of mine, thou know'st did hear thee.
What doth she say, my Lord of Buckingham?
Too rashly plotted: all our general force
Must needs want pleading for a pair of eyes:
By losing of our prayers.
O Hamlet, what a falling-off was there!
fleas like a loach.
If they should speak, would almost damn those ears,
By your prescription: but this top-proud fellow,
And whiter than the paper it writ on
O, once tell true, tell true, even for my sake!
Keep in that mind; I'll deserve it.
Whereon, I do beseech thee, grant me this,
But come, the bow: now mercy goes to kill,
but I shall follow it as the flesh and fortune shall
As lively painted as the deed was done.
My name is Mary, sir.
I am a soldier and now bound to France.
Enter KING PHILIP, LEWIS, CARDINAL PANDULPH, and Attendants
ANTIPHOLUS
Sorrow and grief of heart
That he hath given away! Now, by my life,
of brown thread: I said a gown.
A tucket
Nay, that would be as great a soil in the new gloss
And serve it thus to me that love it not?
Mine eyes, even sociable to the show of thine,
Ay; is it not a language I speak?
Hath clouded all thy happy days on earth:
Have I not pawn'd to you my majesty?
sometimes fashioning them like Pharaoh's soldiers
Suspicion of the deed.
Enter LUCIO
butter-woman's mouth and buy myself another of
But, I pray, sir why am I beaten?
And she for him pleads strongly to the Moor,
Stood the state so? No, no, good friends, God wot;
Well, here is my leg.
'Faith, that he did--I know not what he did.
This is not altogether fool, my lord.
And meeting here the other messenger,
With eyes best seeing, heaven's fiery eye,
I'll beat him, by my life, if I can meet him with
Your servant Kent: Where is your servant Caius?
DON
Look to your wife; observe her well with Cassio;
fed and gone. Will you come presently?
Enter APEMANTUS
'Twas said they saw but one; and no discerner
Nothing but papers, my lord.
Re-enter MISTRESS FORD with two Servants
In them I trust; for they are soldiers,
You'll heat my blood: no more.
Hath slain ten thousand Tybalts. Tybalt's death
The galloping of horse: who was't came by?
The one ne'er got me credit, the other mickle blame.
He is not Hector.
In lieu of this last night did lie with me.
To be her mistress' mistress! the queen's queen!
With such love as 'tis now, the murkiest den,
have put themselves into voluntary exile with him,
Which must be acted ere they may be scann'd.
Dyed in his blood unto the shepherd youth
The duke himself, and the magnificoes
Where thou mayst knock a nail into his bead.
Good time, and live: but for the stock, Sir Thomas,
That Lady Margaret do vouchsafe to come
Given to the common enemy of man,
So have we all, of joy; for our escape
Whate'er it be, be thou still like thyself,
question of the play be then to be considered:
And neither heaven nor man grieve at the mercy.
There's an old woman, a fat woman, gone up into his
Exit Servant
Who willed you? or whose will stands but mine?
Along the field I will the Trojan trail.
And how do you?
And my desires, like fell and cruel hounds,
But know not how it went. My second joy
That he ran mad and died.
I see them now; then was a blessed time.
As you love strokes, so jest with me again.
You may be jogging whiles your boots are green;
That Douglas and the English rebels met
O blessed heavens!
Kiss it, my warrior: he hath fought to-day
This way for me.
Who please to come and hear. For life, I prize it
Dined at home! Thou villain, what sayest thou?
Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE and THOMAS MOWBRAY
Some bloody passion shakes your very frame:
present, the person of Moonshine. Then, there is
ANTIPHOLUS
Thou art a cobbler, art thou?
That it yields nought but shame and bitterness.
We might proceed to cancel of your days;
Tempt not too much the hatred of my spirit;
How goes it now? he looks gentler than he did.
I do arrest you in his highness' name;
sole dominator of Navarre, my soul's earth's god,
When on the gentle Severn's sedgy bank,
And won her soul; and she, sweet lady, dotes,
I thank them for their tender loving care;
What, you mean my face?
If to do were as easy as to know what were good to
Let not thy nurse lie with thee in thy chamber:
In thy fats our cares be drown'd,
'The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms,
You know the law, your exposition
To tell you true, I counterfeit him.
Flourish. Exeunt
In every county as we go along.
Long live she so! and long live you to think so!
Mistress Page, remember you your cue.
Have lost my way for ever: I have a ship
Quit all offences with as clear excuse
Repugnant to command: unequal match'd,
Intended 'gainst Lord Angelo, came I hither,
Severals and generals of grace exact,
Thanks, royal sir.
With all my heart.
And full as oft came Edward to my side,
My mercy dried their water-flowing tears;
nor he durst not give me the Lie Direct; and so we
Be thou assured, good Cassio, I will do
The baby figure of the giant mass
And laid mine honour too unchary out:
Concern me the reporting.
and prabbles, and desire a marriage between Master
To please the king I did; to please myself
Must not be toss'd and turn'd to me in words,
Were play'd in jest by counterfeiting actors?
Honest Ventidius; you mistake my love:
For Edward's sake; and see how he requites me!
Between our after-supper and bed-time?
And with his charity slain.
I boarded the king's ship; now on the beak,
To attend your highness' pleasure.
And these and all are all amiss employ'd.
For goodness, growing to a plurisy,
Enter a Lord
With robbers' hands my hospitable favours
My lodging out. Give him a livery
And here detain'd by her usurping uncle,
watchman; for I cannot see how sleeping should
Exeunt
Before this friar and swear to marry her.
I did confess it, and exactly begg'd
'O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers;
LOVELL seems to stay
undermine you and blow you up.
Et bonum quo antiquius, eo melius.
At any Syracusian marts and fairs;
And grievously hath Caesar answer'd it.
other course you please, which the time shall more
That makes me ugly; and, besides, the Moor
Wherewith I reign'd? I hardly yet have learn'd
Alas, poor country!
If that be jest, then all the rest was so.
Here comes a spirit of his, and to torment me
Many good morrows to my noble lord!
Thou hast been godlike perfect,
At thy good heart's oppression.
Away from the light steals home my heavy son,
As Kate this chamber with her princely gait?
I yield all this;
see, there is such unity in the proofs. The mantle
I mean, your voice,--for crowning of the king.
Thou hast a traitor in thy presence there.
Now, by my maidenhead, at twelve year old,
doer of this, and he is to be thanked.
By heaven, Hubert, I am almost ashamed
You and Fidele play the cooks: I'll stay
Is he of God's making? What manner of man? Is his
ladies out of their wits, they would have no more
The proof of it will turn to redder drops. Look;
That slanders me with murder's crimson badge.
enough to speak, but to speak true.
It seldom visits sorrow; when it doth,
Youngling, thou canst not love so dear as I.
What should he say, but as the cardinal?
I am come
Let not a traitor live!
Worthy the pressing--lies a mole, right proud
Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland,
If thou dost slander her and torture me,
CARDINAL
Fleance is 'scaped.
With sounding Troilus. I will not go from Troy.
So that but one heart we can make of it;
Where others tell steps with me.
Rivers. that died at Pomfret! despair, and die!
Did I ever call for thee to pay thy part?
'Thus saith the duke, thus hath the duke inferr'd;'
And hath been tutor'd in the rudiments
Nor will you tender less.
As well they may upbraid me with my crown,
And most desire should meet the blow of justice;
Stay:
This butcher's cur is venom-mouth'd, and I
Polixenes blameless; Camillo a true subject; Leontes
And never going aright, being a watch,
honesty coupled to beauty is to have honey a sauce to sugar.
Not?
hard as steel.
Exeunt Attendants with THYREUS
And, princes, look you strongly arm to meet him.
And warrant limited unto my tongue.
How if, when I am laid into the tomb,
We have consented to all terms of reason.
Take thy fair hour, Laertes; time be thine,
Will't please your worship to come in, sir?
Escalus.
wear out a good wholesome forenoon in hearing a
good, here's none will hold you. Their love is not
A gentleman that well deserves a help:
Since the more fair and crystal is the sky,
[Within]  An answer from the king, my
O well-divided disposition! Note him,
I will buy me a son-in-law in a fair, and toll for
Virtue! a fig! 'tis in ourselves that we are thus
That I may see my shadow as I pass.
brother,	EDGAR.'
O God, that Somerset, who in proud heart
at me; and he that hits me, let him be clapped on
Standing your friendly lord.
Wishing it so much blood unto your life.
Ay, so true love should do: it cannot speak;
I prithee, grieve, to make me merry, York.
Your majesty hear now, saving your majesty's
No, great king:
Hath alter'd that good picture? What's thy interest
Enter MENENIUS with the two Tribunes of the people, SICINIUS and BRUTUS.
I thank thee. Mariner, say what coast is this?
For do but note a wild and wanton herd,
For the contempt of empire.
Unto the poor King Reignier, whose large style
Fear not, sweet wench, they shall not touch
many of these lisping hawthorn-buds, that come like
For the blood-bolter'd Banquo smiles upon me,
have now found thee; when I lose thee again, I care
And so I chide the means that keeps me from it;
What though the common people favour him,
But the respects thereof are nice and trivial,
Lest I be taken: not the imperious show
Did, as heir general, being descended
me; and take me, take a soldier; take a soldier,
Thou movest no less with thy complaining than
Than stamps in gold or sums in sealed bags;
Whom I employ'd was pre-employ'd by him:
Nor age nor honour shall shape privilege:
O, he hath drawn my picture in his letter!
Affection's edge in me, were she as rough
Solicit'st here a lady that disdains
Bootless home and weather-beaten back.
Re-enter Nurse
I know no personal cause to spurn at him,
Nature's above art in that respect. There's your
How sweet a thing it is to wear a crown;
A whoreson dog, that shall pelter thus with us!
Ay, do, do; thou sodden-witted lord! thou hast no
We are near Tarsus.
To me, blood-thirsty lord;
Whispering
With all the rest of that consorted crew,
Sir, I invite your highness and your train
Why, there's for thee, and there, and there. Are all
That's bad enough, for I am but reproach:
He did bewray his practise; and received
a Dutchman today, a Frenchman to-morrow, or in the
Thou art an old love-monger and speakest skilfully.
To go with us into the abbey here
Eating the bitter bread of banishment;
He was from thence discharged. Sir, call to mind
Exit APEMANTUS
SCENE IV. Rome. Philario's house.
But, O, what damned minutes tells he o'er
If the duke continue these favours towards you,
I cannot love him: let him send no more;
To give in evidence. What then? what rests?
And let the foes quietly cut their throats,
you, he put it by once: but, for all that, to my
As his composure must be rare indeed
I would you had won the fleece that he hath lost.
And then it started like a guilty thing
To sinewy Ajax. I will not praise thy wisdom,
I'll leave my son my virtuous deeds behind;
I am a child to chiding.
Always obedient to your grace's will,
You holp us, sir,
Then was your sin of heavier kind than his.
The Ladies turn their backs to him
a spaniel. Come your ways.
Nay, good lieutenant;
Plead on her part some cause to you unknown:
Tear me, take me, and the gods fall upon you!
walked, to walk like one of the lions; when you
Welcome, AEmilius	what's the news from Rome?
And those that leave their valiant bones in France,
Some men there are love not a gaping pig;
on myself, must I? You have not the Book of Riddles
Even he, sir; did you know him?
Till that her garments, heavy with their drink,
For so your father charged me at our parting,
Gentle Lucetta, fit me with such weeds
And wonder greatly that man's face can fold
Would it not grieve an able man to leave
find the thief; and no satisfaction, no revenge:
Ha, ha, ha!
Methinks it should have power to steal both his
Ay, madam.
Why, how now, Juliet!
Masters, masters,--
sir? not I, sir. God be wi' you, good Sir Topas.
Sit, sir, sit.
And after fight with them?
give the dozen white luces in their coat.
Which runs himself and catches for his master.
Their bloody sign of battle is hung out,
himself on the expectation of plenty: come in
did she, an hour together, transshape thy particular
He that had wit would think that I had none,
And, with grey hairs and bruise of many days,
Or else he never would compare between.
'Hath sent to me, wishing me to permit
Let it go round.
he is enamoured on Hero; I pray you, dissuade him
things for bird-bolts that you deem cannon-bullets:
of fern-seed, we walk invisible.
provost, honesty and constancy: if I read it not
Want mercy, if I do not join with him:
Not to his father's; I spoke with his man.
But I'll be hanged, sir, if he wear your livery:
She sings like one immortal, and she dances
fellow by the leg.
wherein you're happy,--which you'll make him know,
Which then blew bitterly against our faces,
All this is so: but what of this, my lord?
What else may hap to time I will commit;
Be that thou hopest to be, or what thou art
prave man.
her to rise.
DON ADRIANO DE
Know'st thou not, Bertram,
villanous speeches of the duke.
In all my lands and leases whatsoever:
I will not dine until I see the same.
I grant indeed it hath not appeared, and your
Very good. Give it nothing, I pray you, for it is
Why should he call her whore? who keeps her company?
To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what
Hath he excepted most against my love.
Tendering our sister's honour and our own.
begot, bastard instructed, bastard in mind, bastard
Why, here begins his morning story right;
Well, do not swear: although I joy in thee,
How shall I know thee again?
Give with thy trumpet a loud note to Troy,
It is a conquest for a prince to boast of.
Can you remember any of the principal evils that he
Call'd Roderigo.
Since nought so stockish, hard and full of rage,
Your mere enforcement shall acquittance me
Good day, my lord.
thyself execute, to make one among these wooers: if
Exit
Which from the womb I did participate.
Myself thus alter'd with 't.
Exit BIONDELLO
Being held a foe, he may not have access
To sue, and be denied such common grace:
Exit Luciana
His power unto Octavia.
To have one show worse than the king's and his company.
This body, like to them, to what I must;
Seldom or never jumpeth with the heart.
How all occasions do inform against me,
To my daughters; and tell them both,
That thou betray'dst Polixenes,'twas nothing;
She loved them most.
Have glozed, but superficially: not much
Hold you there: farewell.
O Cassius, you are yoked with a lamb
But thou preferr'st thy life before thine honour:
What music is this?
portend these divisions! fa, sol, la, mi.
On what I hate I feed not.
With such a brabbler.
Chaste Dian bathing: never saw I figures
And Julia herself did give it me;
To him and to his heirs; namely, the crown
What means this, my lord?
Are prized by their masters: believe't, dear lord,
As she is troubled with thick coming fancies,
When she has so much English.
Come on, my boy: how dost, my boy? art cold?
In forwarding this dear expedience.
robin-redbreast; to walk alone, like one that had
Only their ends
What means this shouting? I do fear, the people
O peace, Prince Dauphin!
Where is our usual manager of mirth?
rather trust a Fleming with my butter, Parson Hugh
Come, sirrah, you must be hanged.
RICHARD
The prenzie Angelo!
Thanks, sir: the like to you!
Faith, nothing; but has left me here behind, to
To have begg'd or bought what I have took:
My liege, the wound that bred this meeting here
And what's untimely done. O, come away!
Here burns my candle out; ay, here it dies,
In it be memorised.
To business with the king, more than the scope
Hath he not a son?
monstrous watch is at the door.
How shall we find the concord of this discord?
continued in it some time. You say, seven years together?
A thousand pound, Ha! a million: thy love is worth
I know you would be prouder of the work
Greater than both, by the all-hail hereafter!
The spacious world cannot again afford
two hundred crowns.
So much as but to prop him?
Will you go on? I pray.
He wrings him by the ears
Nay, get thee in. I'll pray, and then I'll sleep.
your remedy.
'Good sir,' or so, or 'friend,' or 'gentleman,'
you had it, I'll take out no work on't.
Give me the cup: let go; by heaven, I'll have't.
king's company.
That all eyes saw his eyes enchanted with gazes.
Exit ANTONIO
And nothing of your answer.
Was in the wreck; and, but he's something stain'd
if you be out, sir, I can mend you.
Exeunt
By now forswearing that he is forsworn:
which they trick up with new-tuned oaths: and what
No, truly not; although, until last night,
We must be neat; not neat, but cleanly, captain:
Until my husband bid me.
To youth and liberty.
Exeunt
I do repent. Alas! I have show'd too much
I would I had; so I had broke thy pate,
I am content, so thou wilt have it so.
What, have I pinch'd you, Signior Gremio?
ACT V
And now the house of York, thrust from the crown
I love the lovely bully. What is thy name?
A liberal rewarder of his friends:
ANTIPHOLUS
While these do labour for their own preferment,
A Bohemian born, but here nursed un and bred; one
This side is Hiems, Winter, this Ver, the Spring;
Herself hath taught her love himself to write unto her lover.
As war were hoodwink'd.
That still I lay upon my mother's head,
learn me how to remember any extraordinary pleasure.
I was too hot to do somebody good,
That my most jealous and too doubtful soul
Shall thereby be the sweeter. Reason thus with life:
Then, madam, stand resolved, but hope withal
Had been a little ratsbane for thy sake!
Turn to another, this shall slay them both:
Exeunt all but KING HENRY VI and EXETER
A name unmusical to the Volscians' ears,
Sundays. Look Don Pedro is returned to seek you.
it with turning up your eyelids, sigh a note and
To find this practise out.
Speaks Suffolk as he thinks?
And in his grave rain'd many a tear:--
You had of her pure honour gains or loses
Where is that damned villain Tranio,
Aside to her
Not three hours' travel from this very place.
Lulla, lulla, lullaby, lulla, lulla, lullaby:
Thou shalt not damn my hand.
O'erflows the measure: those his goodly eyes,
For him, and in his right, we hold this town.
My hand would free her, but my heart says no
Where shall we sojourn till our coronation?
My wife is in a wayward mood to-day,
Exit GLOUCESTER, BUCKINGHAM following
hope of life in him: so he served the second, and
I fear, a madness held me: this must crave,
Certain ones then.
If your worship will take order for the drabs and
had not taken yourself with the manner.
Here.
Not at all, good lady:
This Lodovico is a proper man.
And it I will have, or I will have none.
Doth noise abroad, Navarre hath made a vow,
sailing by the star.
Lastly, myself unkindly banished,
That any man turn ass,
I strike quickly, being moved.
Exit
Were you a woman, youth,
This lady's husband, Sir Richard Grey, was slain,
any dishonesty.
I thank you for your music, gentlemen.
Shall have a high reward, and he his life?
High-stomach'd are they both, and full of ire,
Merely, my lord.
To DESDEMONA
'Faith, my acquaintance lies little amongst them.
Our certain death: therefore it is decreed
Are gone, are gone:
you'll bear me a bang for that, I fear. Proceed; directly.
We'll mutiny.
Is sick in love with Beatrice. Of this matter
And since her time are colliers counted bright.
Convey them with safe conduct. Fare you well.
born in an hour: if the heavens had been pleased,
I'll stay above the hill, so both may shoot.
He but usurp'd his life.
Why cloud they not their sights perpetually,
this very instant disaster of his setting i' the
If the enemy is an ass and a fool and a prating
Sings
I mean, the business is not ended, as fearing to
Male varlet, you rogue! what's that?
And liberty plucks justice by the nose;
The phrase would be more german to the matter, if we
And make a common of my serious hours.
The fairest queen that ever king received.
Thou worthiest Marcius!
And did not I in rage depart from thence?
Put on by us, if, in your heavenly eyes,
To link my dear friend to a common stale.
Why, Valentine, what braggardism is this?
What is your name?
Come with my lady hither.
Whiles we stood here securing your repose,
Willingly;
Come, kiss.
Why, that was when
Exeunt
O, whither?
From course required; or else thou must be counted
Ne'er let my heart know merry cheer indeed,
Alas, the storm is come again! my best way is to
Alas, poor ghost!
Thou toad, thou toad, where is thy brother Clarence?
But, Warwick,
Hail, noble Marcius!
Upon a homely object Love can wink.
Who hath for four or five removes come short
O ye immortal gods!
Through flinty Tartar's bosom would peep forth,
Come, come, we are friends: let's have a dance ere
you shall speed in your journey's end, I think you'll
merit, did justly put on the vouch of very malice itself?
Rumour it abroad
But by thy help to this distressed queen?
Then, free for ever! Is't enough I am sorry?
Dost hate a medlar?
But in this kind, wanting your father's voice,
Who's this? O God! it is my father's face,
Noble Ventidius! Well;
And will they so? the gallants shall be task'd;
Must I observe you? must I stand and crouch
Ay, a minced man: and then to be baked with no date
SCENE II. A public road near Coventry.
Hotspur of the north; he that kills me some six or
Not after our command. Away with her,
Be choked with such another emphasis!
Against my near'st of life: and though I could
I'll never follow thy pall'd fortunes more.
There is no tongue that moves, none, none i' the world,
Of this most wise rebellion, thou go'st foremost:
I do suspect I have done some offence
Thou art right welcome as thy master is.
Drums in his ear, at which he starts and wakes,
Then, I confess,
And George, of Clarence: Warwick, as ourself,
habit no loss shall touch her by my company.
To thee, herself, and many a Christian soul,
Why, may one ask?
Go take her hence, and marry her instantly.
He hath confess'd.
You may, by marrying.
Cry the man mercy; love him; take his offer:
But, my good lord,
Re-enter BUCKINGHAM and the rest
For truth can never be confirm'd enough,
Sure ones, then.
preserve it from tainting: but I see you have some
You love the breeder better than the male.
With envious looks, laughing at thy shame,
Day, yield me not thy light; nor, night, thy rest!
Yond towers, whose wanton tops do buss the clouds,
Trumpet within
Enter LORENZO and JESSICA
First, heaven be the record to my speech!
The hour draws on. To the oak, to the oak!
When Imogen is dead.
As we have seen him in the Capitol,
They have put forth the haven
through the very middest of you? and heavens and
You precious winners all; your exultation
About a hoop of gold, a paltry ring
Though I condemn not, yet, under pardon,
As bid me tell my tale in express words,
He is called Aunchient Pistol.
Yea, with a splitting power, and made to tremble
O, prepare it!
you fearful, that neither my coat, integrity, nor
By the pattern of mine own thoughts I cut out
Heaven is above all yet; there sits a judge
We are yet but young in deed.
Roderigo meant to have sent this damned villain;
Who, I, my lord?
Find shapes of grief, more than himself, to wail;
Am I the motive of these tears, my lord?
[Kneeling]              It is my duty
Would become tender.
And by the worth and honour of himself,
When with a happy storm they were surprised
Not now to hear thee sing; I take no pleasure
That know love's grief by his complexion!
And, were there sense in his idolatry,
I perceive, by this demand, you are not altogether
Doth thy other mouth call me? Mercy, mercy! This is
That now I will have: that's the humour of it.
counterfeit of a man who hath not the life of a man:
Shall sink in my rebuke. Give me to know
To prattle for himself.
Exit BUCKINGHAM
Now will I look to his remuneration. Remuneration!
So true, so just, and now so comfortable?
But when they seldom come, they wish'd for come,
Yet should both ear and heart obey my tongue.
Will guard your person while you take your rest,
I, that am curtail'd of this fair proportion,
You bees that make these locks of counsel! Lovers
score. He pieces out his wife's inclination; he
This ancient morsel, this Sir Prudence, who
And that thou art so, there I throw my gage,
What is't o'clock?
Will make him burst his lead and rise from death.
Demetrius, I'll avouch it to his head,
humble-mouth'd;
living by the copulation of cattle; to be bawd to a
Ay, Edward will use women honourably.
To have a temple built you: all the swords
That, being of so young days brought up with him,
properly, stays me here at home unkept; for call you
Upon the first encounter, drave them.
I pray you, tell me how my good friend doth.
Some carry-tale, some please-man, some slight zany,
There is no virtue like necessity.
Aside
And you that do abet him in this kind
Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
Master Page is an honest man. Never a wife in
Which is as brief as I have known a play;
Grew a companion to the common streets,
Speak briefly then;
He shall espouse Elizabeth her daughter.
As rich shall Romeo's by his lady's lie;
solidares for thee: good boy, wink at me, and say
some violets, but they withered all when my father
Re-enter third Servingman
Enter SIMONIDES, reading a letter, at one door: the Knights meet him
For the rain it raineth every day.
And three or four more of their growth we'll dress
bastinado and made Lucifer cuckold and swore the
And what's the third?
alike and none less dear than thine and my good
That Mowbray hath received eight thousand nobles
With precepts that would make invincible
And so must I, sir: we have appointed to dine with
Our Rome will cast upon thee.
Whither were you a-going?
Why, first,--for flouting me; and then, wherefore--
To which we all appeal.
Determine this great war in single fight!
Enter DOCTOR CAIUS
most omnipotent villain that ever cried 'Stand' to
Of what personage and years is he?
But I had rather kill two enemies.
What pledge have we of thy firm loyalty?
So dry he was for sway--wi' the King of Naples
You mistook, sir; I say, she did nod: and you ask
His bleeding sword 'twixt England and fair France.
opposite. Now, to seem to affect the malice and
A flourish of trumpets, and ordnance shot off, within
Ay, or a stomach.
Being the bosom lover of my lord,
To pardon me yet for a night or two,
What is't to me, when you yourselves are cause,
The only son of your great enemy.
O, thou didst then ne'er love so heartily!
I will send far and near, that all the kingdom
Till his deserts are past, begin to throw
Abide me, if thou darest; for well I wot
What is your pleasure?
Only for propagation of a dower
Whose leisure I have stay'd, have given him time
But, soft! methinks I scent the morning air;
The wisest aunt, telling the saddest tale,
I'll put it on.
By this good light, this is a very shallow monster!
Come in, Titinius!
Hast here cut off my lord. To write and read
the Park: I pray you, pardon me; I will hereafter
These yellow cowslip cheeks,
As long a term as yet we have to live,
Of habits devil, is angel yet in this,
By wicked means to frame our sovereign's fall.
Unless you can find sport in their intents,
That he will neither know how to maintain it,
Exeunt
And we'll pray for you.
As soon he shall by me, that thus the cardinal
Thereon I pawn my credit and mine honour.
Tell us the manner of it, gentle Casca.
The unlucky manage of this fatal brawl:
Take her away; I do not like her now;
SCENE V. OLIVIA'S house.
Brew'd with her sorrow, mesh'd upon her cheeks:
All thy other titles thou hast given away; that
Of many kings. If there come truth from them--
For such a business; therefore am I found
Call me to your remembrances.
Whether I blush or no: howbeit, I thank you.
Because I cannot meet my Hermia.
No interim, not a minute's vacancy,
With eight tall ships, three thousand men of war,
Not I, for this fair island:
Hadst thou but loved him half so well as I,
Married my daughter there! for, coming thence,
Why call you me love? call my sister so.
Exit First Servant
Held current music too.
Varro's Servants	And ours, my lord.
To ear the land that hath some hope to grow,
Nay, do not fly; I think we have watch'd you now
Were they his men?
Why the Grecians sacked Troy?
a jealous tyrant; his innocent babe truly begotten;
For from my heart thine image ne'er shall go;
But we keep whole by land. This speed of Caesar's
Believe me, lord, I think he cannot choose.
Who all as hot, turns deadly point to point,
'Tis my deserving, and I do entreat it.
On sheep or oxen could I spend my fury.
O Desdemona! away! away! away!
To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue;
fire-shovel: I knew by that piece of service the
This same should be the voice of Friar John.
Free pardon to each man that has denied
Of all that I do know: nor know I aught
money; next, give me your hand; and last, as I am a
And never seek for aid out of himself. Yet see,
Excellent wretch! Perdition catch my soul,
over, the trompet sound the retreat. By my hand, I
Thou injurious thief,
So,
Enter ANNE and an Old Lady
Bid them achieve me and then sell my bones.
Would think upon you for your voices and
Might well have given us bloody argument.
shall have good trading that way. But tell me, Hal,
Thus conscience does make cowards of us all;
I will embrace
But sweeter than the lids of Juno's eyes
And in the porches of my ears did pour
Give me your gloves, I'll wear them for your sake;
The first thing we do, let's kill all the lawyers.
With spectacles on nose and pouch on side,
Purple the sails, and so perfumed that
Say to me,
Come on: in this there can be no dismay;
I have cast off for ever: thou shalt,
Now, on the Sunday following, shall Bianca
One thing or other: when thou didst not, savage,
give satiety a fresh appetite, loveliness in favour,
And straight disclaim their tongues? What are
To make yourself a son out of my blood.
Impatient of my absence,
bargains, cooled my friends, heated mine
Strive mightily, but eat and drink as friends.
And still proclaimeth, as he comes along,
Say he be taken, rack'd and tortured,
and only the gift of the gods.
So must slender Rosalind.
Away, you rogue! dost thou not hear them call?
Well said, old mole! canst work i' the earth so fast?
Not as a brother.
And thither bear your treasure and your goods.
Like a bold champion, I assume the lists,
Though heaven cannot: O Romeo, Romeo!
If there be here German, or Dane, low Dutch,
Her coronation. Katharine no more
O royal knavery!--an exact command,
Will blow these sands, like Sibyl's leaves, abroad,
clothes? Come away.
This knight, no less for bounty bound to us
So shall you quietly enjoy your hope,
Aside
In honour honesty, the tract of every thing
She gives the DUCHESS a box on the ear
Exit Second Messenger
Steep'd in the colours of their trade, their daggers
To dispossess that child which is not his?
And in the brunt of seventeen battles since
Come, poor babe:
Well, I'll make excuse.
For with his soul fled all my worldly solace,
You are a fool. You, niece, provide yourself:
A sheep-cote fenced about with olive trees?
Then, good my liege, mistake me not so much
Intelligence is given where you are hid;
As being thought to contradict your liking,
the meat cool ere we can agree upon the first place:
May soon return to this our suffering country
These are his substance, sinews, arms and strength,
late master's garments in thy possession?
Enter JOAN LA PUCELLE on the top, thrusting out a torch burning
My maid Nerissa and myself meantime
An ante-chamber adjoining Imogen's apartments.
O noble English. that could entertain
Because she's kin to me, therefore she's not so fair
Bears all down with her brain; and this her son
A spur to valiant and magnanimous deeds,
What might we do to make the girl forget
poor duke's officers; but truly, for mine own part,
DON
You must begin, 'Will you, Orlando--'
Young in limbs, in judgment old,
O, I should have a heavy miss of thee,
Pretty Ophelia!
rightly, is, 'I am Sir John Falstaff's.'
As might have drawn one to a longer voyage,
I shall return before your lordship thence.
opening my lips and receiving the bad air.
Thou thy worldly task hast done,
No, pray thee, good Meg, I'll wear this.
And ere a man hath power to say 'Behold!'
you; yet I should bear no cross if I did bear you,
Ere now denied the asker? and now again
Which makes it tedious; for in all the play
Mayst smile at this: thou shalt not choose but go:
[Aside]              One way I like this well;
The innocent mansion of my love, my heart;
Where hath it slept? Where is my mother's care,
Before thy sovereign and thy lawful king?
do it with unwashed hands too.
I should make very forges of my cheeks,
my sweet love?
Of head-piece extraordinary? lower messes
Fell over the threshold and broke my shin.
How now, nuncle! Would I had two coxcombs and two daughters!
Of 'Came' and 'saw' and 'overcame: ' with shame--
Quarter'd the world, and o'er green Neptune's back
The viol once more: how thou stirr'st, thou block!
Gentlemen, my master Antonio is at his house and
Publius, how now! how now, my masters!
So when he opens his purse to give us our reward,
And bid the cheek be ready with a blush
You have a double tongue within your mask,
Enter PROTEUS and LAUNCE
Of noisome musty chaff: he said 'twas folly,
Where nothing lives but crosses, cares and grief.
Timon, I fear me thou wilt give away thyself in
I have a reasonable good ear in music. Let's have
To witness simple virtue? Would you not swear,
Ay, that is study's godlike recompense.
trade-fallen, the cankers of a calm world and a
How do you, Desdemona?
Re-enter CRESSIDA
Awhile to work, and after holiday.
Now tell me, brother Clarence, what think you
Nature's; who perceiveth our natural wits too dull
And, gentle master, I received no gold;
I laugh'd him into patience; and next morn,
And like a neutral to his will and matter,
themselves. What wouldst thou do with the world,
dat I vill not for the varld I shall leave behind.
Dost thou in conscience think,--tell me, Emilia,--
That 'only' came well in. Sir, list to me:
God, God forgive us all! Look after her;
To MARDIAN
And now methinks I have a mind to it.
As thou hast made me by my dear lord's death!
Live you the marble-breasted tyrant still;
If after this command thou fraught the court
Scaring the ladies like a crow-keeper;
Do deeds worth praise and tell you them at night.
Exeunt
'Twould be too tedious to repeat;
him; then entertain him, then forswear him; now weep
Both more and less have given him the revolt,
If you shall marry,
How this Herculean Roman does become
Wish himself the heaven's breath.
She shall not sue unheard. So to them both.
You shall not seal to such a bond for me:
camest thou to be the siege of this moon-calf? can
Madam, good even to your ladyship.
Farewell, father.
He gains by death that hath such means to die:
To the succeeding royalty he leaves
Tell me thy reason why thou wilt marry.
From ancient grudge break to new mutiny,
Hast thou beheld a fresher gentlewoman?
If I have too austerely punish'd you,
him so pictured: you must either be directed by
Unless he do submit himself to Rome.
His crest that prouder than blue Iris bends.
Amen, so you be none.
To fight for and maintain!
You owe me no subscription: then let fall
And be these juggling fiends no more believed,
Why should you fall into so deep an O?
Well, sir, we must have you find your legs. Sirrah
Yea, with a bridegroom's fresh alacrity,
With witchcraft of his wit, with traitorous gifts,--
Tut, I have work enough for you to do.
There is a written scroll! I'll read the writing.
To cure the desperate languishings whereof
With honour to maintain.
Enter a Messenger
HERMIONE comes down
have brought her into such a canaries as 'tis
Make it your cause; send down, and take my part!
Take her hence:
And, though he in a fertile climate dwell,
How lies their battle? know you on which side
She never reprehended him but mildly,
This pretty lad will prove our country's bliss.
ANTIPHOLUS
He'll think your mother chides, and leave you so.
make me honest.
chamber window, where we play, open, and the moon
I love no chiders, sir. Biondello, let's away.
And never seen thee, never borne thee son,
Peace, I have done. God mark thee to his grace!
The baby beats the nurse, and quite athwart
Alas, thrice-gentle Cassio!
And when my face is fair, you shall perceive
Wherein the toged consuls can propose
The times and titles now are alter'd strangely
That handkerchief
The better act of purposes mistook
Masters o' the people,
Through all the signories it was the first
He whom my father named? your Edgar?
companion that you give offence to.
yet look after thee? Wilt thou, after the expense
Reigns in the hearts of all our present parts.
Than you are mad; which is enough, I'll warrant,
To lose itself in a fog, where being three parts
performance is ever the duller for his act; and,
mean: superfluity comes sooner by white hairs, but
'Tis holy sport to be a little vain,
Away, old man; give me thy hand; away!
I have eyes upon him,
I'll serve you, sir, five hundred at the rate.
Coming from us.
To prove you a cipher.
You have put me out of countenance.
Their heads to their foundations; though the treasure
He was as calm as virtue--he began
But 'twas thy heavenly face that set me on.
SCENE II. Before Lord Hastings' house.
Master Parson, quasi pers-on. An if one should be
Third Serving-man	And I will see what physic the tavern affords.
Marry,
Sir, by your patience. If I heard you rightly,
Burn the great sphere thou movest in!
What says my sweet queen? My cousin will fall out
To every Roman citizen he gives,
Where chance may nurse or end it. Take it up.
This viperous slander enters. What cheer, madam?
From the fix'd place; drew from heart all love,
and master?
With that which he hath drunk to-night already,
Nor customary suits of solemn black,
Will in his brinish bowels swallow him.
They be alone.
That could be brought to bodily act ere Rome
have heard it was ever his manner to do so.
Go to. Will you, Orlando, have to wife this Rosalind?
No lord of thine, thou haught insulting man,
It sall be vary gud, gud feith, gud captains bath:
As you intended well.
Pisa renowned for grave citizens.
It was a mark of wonder.
rod of marshalship, a coronet on his head.
neither, 'twas one of these coronets;--and, as I told
My father's dead.
They that stand high have many blasts to shake them;
of this to-morrow. Adieu.
Made such a sinner of his memory,
How now, good woman? how dost thou?
Do it then, that we may account thee a whoremaster
Our arms, in strength of malice, and our hearts
Sir, I cannot.
And mine to boot, be darted on thee! Thou,
The third of Antioch;
vessel makes the greatest sound.' Bardolph and Nym
linen: since when, I'll be sworn, he wore none but
Or 'What good love may I perform for you?'
You were best to tell Antonio what you hear;
And let Bianca take her sister's room.
That going shall be used with feet.
A good construction. I raised him, and I pawn'd
Pales in the flood with men, with wives and boys,
One more, most welcome, makes my number more.
For now, these hot days, is the mad blood stirring.
For wooing here until I sweat again,
Wherefore? for my dinner: I have not dined to-day.
That which I gave you.
The dinner attends you, sir.
Good master secretary,
Thy master dies thy scholar: to do thus
What! I, that kill'd her husband and his father,
I am glad 'tis night, you do not look on me,
When he hath power to crush? Why, had your bodies
Worcester, get thee gone; for I do see
And in their rage, I having hold of both,
could he dig without arms? I'll put another
Come hither, mistress. Is your name Goneril?
Be these the wretches that we play'd at dice for?
Both are alike; and both alike we like.
King Henry and the prince his son are gone:
The duke does greet you, general,
I will not sing.
There should be one amongst 'em, by his person,
rule of nature. To speak on the part of virginity,
All other doubts, by time let them be clear'd:
Were in the Washes all unwarily
Took pains to make thee speak, taught thee each hour
I tell thee, Syracusian, twenty years
Farewell: our countrymen are gone and fled,
a prop? Do you know me, father?
I am a rogue, if I were not at half-sword with a
Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and
If thou didst ever thy dear father love--
Exeunt TITUS, MARCUS, and LAVINIA
I will be treble-sinew'd, hearted, breathed,
Methought the souls of all that I had murder'd
This dream is all amiss interpreted;
his suit and lead him on with a fine-baited delay,
Give me the daggers: the sleeping and the dead
That such a thing bechanced would make me sad?
Of him that hears it, never in the tongue
What is unsettled in the king.
Let me sit heavy on thy soul to-morrow,
The clownish fool out of your father's court?
honour! You will not do it, you!
That to our sister you do make return;
it would not much approve me. Well, sir?
The parts and graces of the wrestler
To speak the ceremonial rites of marriage!
With such a heady currance, scouring faults
Better thou
Like quills upon the fretful porpentine:
This shows a sound affection.
What may it be? You do not doubt my faith, sir?
Stay not; fly, whilst thou art blest and free:
Than sway with them in theirs.
Outlives encertain pomp, is crown'd before:
To the choleric fisting of every rogue
By his persuasion are again fall'n off,
Great. Pompey, you are partly a bawd, Pompey,
How now, wool-sack! what mutter you?
I prithee now, lead the way without any more
To lingering sufferance. Answer me to-morrow,
Shall not be sent: my hand will serve the turn:
To bitterest enmity: so, fellest foes,
clean kept: for why, she sweats; a man may go over
And I'll devise a mean to draw the Moor
want no instruction; if their daughters be capable,
fells, you know, are greasy.
You lords and noble friends, know our intent.
why then make sport at me; then let me be your jest;
late innovation.
Must be fulfill'd, and I attend with patience.
Out, alas, sir! cozenage, mere cozenage!
Sit, Coriolanus; never shame to hear
Re-enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS, and seconds the  Britons: they rescue CYMBELINE, and exeunt. Then re-enter LUCIUS, and IACHIMO, with IMOGEN
Poor Bassianus here lies murdered.
You lords and heads o' the state, perfidiously
Most certain, sir.
Here is Got's plessing, and your friend, and Justice
To part with unhack'd edges, and bear back
Bear hateful memory, poor Enobarbus did
Where fearing dying pays death servile breath.
In practise let us put it presently.
If Talbot do but thunder, rain will follow.
This 'tis to be married! this 'tis to have linen
I'll keep mine own, despite of all the world.
Son, how now! how now, son! have you dispatched?
Till our King Henry had shook hands with death.
Exit one to Abbess
By Signior Angelo.
But, I protest, he had the chain of me,
Nine changes of the watery star hath been
As if allegiance in their bosoms sat,
Sir, he made a chimney in my father's house, and
Gracious sovereign,
To bear such idleness so near the heart
His years but young, but his experience old;
Out of thy garments.
And will be partner of your weal or woe.
Why, how now, daughter Katharina! in your dumps?
The senators of Athens: happy man!
Of its own kind, all foison, all abundance,
I have tumbled past the throw; and in his praise
Hear his speech, but say thou nought.
I am too high-born to be propertied,
Return me, as Cominius is return'd,
Walk'd crowns and crownets; realms and islands were
Then, Richard Earl of Cambridge, there is yours;
But, too unruly deer, he breaks the pale
this rascal, I could brain him with his lady's fan.
Immortal Dian!
I did, my lord: yet let me be their bail;
All in Bohemia's well; this satisfaction
speak with him till after dinner.
Wert thou as young as I, Juliet thy love,
Upon their ancient malice will forget
His charters and his customary rights;
Like stinging bees in hottest summer's day
If promises be kept on every hand,
As flowers with frost or grass beat down with storms:
Commend unto his lips thy favouring hand:
A hundred thousand crowns; and not demands,
That is most certain.
My oath, and my profession: I protest,
But that his beard grew thin and hungerly
Garter, in his coat of arms, and on his
Clarence, excuse me to the king my brother;
You're welcome, sir.
No, my lord;
I'll be with you, niece, by and by.
Not truly in their hearts, but in their eyes.
High'st queen of state,
I will something affect the letter, for it argues facility.
Sit like his grandsire cut in alabaster?
To counsel Cassio to this parallel course,
if thou thou'st him some thrice, it shall not be
And substituted in the place of mine,
That it shall render vengeance and revenge
Re-enter GLOUCESTER
Which in myself I boldly will defend;
How now, philosopher!
Besides the applause and approbation To which,
Exit
The inward service of the mind and soul
None durst come near for fear of sudden death.
There is a slave, whom we have put in prison,
I pray, my lords, let me compound this strife.
Our tradesmen with in their shops and going
Thou on him leaning, and all Troy on thee,
Aside to BRUTUS
Requires nor child nor woman's face to see.
Muster'd my soldiers, gather'd flocks of friends,
But what, o' God's name, doth become of this?
Enter Mariners wet
that, my lord, no more o' that: you mar all with
Go, write it in a martial hand; be curst and brief;
Among nine bad if one be good,
Once more to look on him.
O insupportable! O heavy hour!
I yield thee up my life.
Should 'scape the true acquaintance of mine ear.
Away; disperse: but till 'tis one o'clock,
but something given to lie; as a woman should not
And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
to Canterbury with rich offerings, and traders
I am pale, Charmian.
And in his ear I'll holla 'Mortimer!'
Is not, sir, my doublet as fresh as the first day I
Stand you a while aloof, Cesario,
stings, our unbitted lusts, whereof I take this that
they hold up Adam's profession.
'Zounds, will they not rob us?
Enter HOLOFERNES, SIR NATHANIEL, and DULL
Whom whilst I labour'd of a love to see,
That you, Cleomenes and Dion, have
beards or good faces or sweet breaths will, for my
Being captain of a pinnace, threatens more
Lest men should say 'Look, where three-farthings goes!'
there to command.
That I require a clearness: and with him--
That cannot do that feat, you'll leave yourself
Without the which we are pictures, or mere beasts:
Commend the paper to his gracious hand,
Have taken sanctuary: the tender prince
Enter DOCTOR BUTTS
Yes, I agree, and thank you for your motion.
Upon these words I came and cheer'd him up:
Comfort, my liege; remember who you are.
To be revenged on him that slew my husband.
That skull had a tongue in it, and could sing once:
laid to the charge of women?
By inspiration of celestial grace,
Welcome, ladies, Welcome!
Especially since Charles must father it.
Yet had not we determined he should die,
No, my complete master: but to jig off a tune at
Saw you the weird sisters?
a gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o'
The pretty and sweet manner of it forced
No more; unless the next word that thou speak'st
Madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go.
Hers it was not.
Against this man, whose honesty the devil
To have proved most royally: and, for his passage,
Two of them have the very bent of honour;
Exeunt
Enter LUCIUS, MARCUS, and Goths, with AARON prisoner
Enter JOAN LA PUCELLE disguised, with four Soldiers with sacks upon their backs
'Tis in reversion that I do possess;
It cannot be; thou dost but say 'tis so:
By east and west let France and England mount
Thy commander, Achilles. Then tell me, Patroclus,
As seld I have the chance--I would desire
Steps in to Cassio, and entreats his pause:
he would quickly have the gift of a grave.
Would give preceptial medicine to rage,
and I shall procure-a you de good guest, de earl,
If not with vantage, as Demetrius';
my eyes on thy picture. and my heart on thy every
He hath more worthy interest to the state
It is my Lord of Berkeley, as I guess.
Almost a mile: but he does usually,
melted away with rotten dews, the fourth would return
The senate hath stirr'd up the confiners
Do so, and 'tis well.
I ever bore my daughter or thyself.
He is not with himself; let us withdraw.
That virtuous prince, the good Duke Humphrey:
Hang him, mechanical salt-butter rogue! I will
the body. The king is a thing--
Come, come; we'll couch i' the castle-ditch till we
At last, a little shaking of mine arm
And tame the savage spirit of wild war,
Upon the pillow: hie thee, whiles I say
MIRANDA sleeps
I know you joy not in a love discourse.
Saint Alban's battle won by famous York
We shall be much unwelcome.
O blest, that I might not! I chose an eagle,
Or a harlot, for her weeping;
Enter HORTENSIO
natural, if philosophy could find it out.
sigh till he come.
To Bedlam with him! is the man grown mad?
This is the pit, and this the elder-tree.
Alas, you know I am no vaunter, I;
And serving you so long!
What's her price, Boult?
Whiles, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
They shall go forward, Kate, at thy command.
Grapples you to the heart and love of us,
He wishes earnestly you never may.
She well instructs me.
How now! what do you here alone?
And bid him come to take his last farewell.
That makest my blood cold and my hair to stare?
fidiused for all the chests in Corioli, and the gold
Or fearing else some messenger that might her mind discover,
lanthorn is the moon; I, the man in the moon; this
button, a duellist, a duellist; a gentleman of the
All school-days' friendship, childhood innocence?
We'll follow them with all the power we have.
How art thou call'd? and what is thy degree?
Razing the characters of your renown,
But which are the offenders that are to be
Exit
Richer than all his tribe; of one whose subdued eyes,
The terrors of the earth. You think I'll weep
Exeunt
Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
I cannot dream of: I entreat you both,
I heard him swear,
The one for ever earn'd a royal husband;
The heavens forbid
The colour of her hair: bring me word quickly.
God's mercy, maiden! does it curd thy blood
I beseech you, sir,
To take the indisposed and sickly fit
to waste: about it.
And here's the base fruit of his burning lust.
What you will, Monsieur Jaques.
And sometime rail thou like Demetrius;
Why to a public count I might not go,
Deliver it to Madam Silvia:
Will you walk, sir?
That blood already, like the pelican,
Death, lie thou there, by a dead man interr'd.
Wash your hands, put on your nightgown; look not so
Come in, without there!
No ceremony that to great ones 'longs,
O, would the quarrel lay upon our heads,
When I have heard your king's desert recounted,
But ere the crown he looks for live in peace,
I'll pheeze you, in faith.
Not she which burns in't. I'll not call you tyrant;
Boy sings
We were encounterd by a mighty rock;
Take thou thy Silvia, for thou hast deserved her.
The fall'n-off Britons, that we do incite
Than summer-seeming lust, and it hath been
Northumberland comes back from Bolingbroke.
What 'her' is this?
Wedges of gold, great anchors, heaps of pearl,
Exeunt
powers, drove the grossness of the foppery into a
And worse than Progne I will be revenged:
Most pestilent to the bearing; and, to bear 'em,
My blood, my want of strength, my sick heart shows.
Give o'er the play.
This is the prison. What is he lies here?
Which might not what by me is told.
Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?
'Jupiter!' quoth she, 'which of these hairs is Paris,
Writes
I may not suffer you to visit them;
But weary for the staleness.
God comfort thy capacity! I say, the allusion holds
A dry jest, sir.
By this rude place we live in. Well encounter'd!
With child, perhaps?
But let his disposition have that scope
And in his needy shop a tortoise hung,
Speak, Pucelle, and enchant him with thy words.
So, lie thou there: die thou, and die our fear;
I would be so triumphant as I am?
Whom Fortune with her ivory hand wafts to her;
Exeunt PRINCE HENRY and LANCASTER
Open your purse, that the money and the matter may
Into three limits very equally:
claret wine this first year of our reign. And now
For every graff would send a caterpillar,
But darkness and the gloomy shade of death
Fills him with faults; makes him run through all the sins:
Courage! there will be pity taken on you: you that
Thou slander of thy mother's heavy womb!
Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
Jack Cade! Jack Cade!
Even he.
The effect doth operate another way.
That ever wall-eyed wrath or staring rage
And therefore hath the wind-swift Cupid wings.
And more thirsts after.
So far as thou wilt speak it.
bitterness.
To warrant thee, as I am 'rested for.
Well, go thy ways, old lad; for thou shalt ha't.
And reverend looker on, of two fair queens.
Naught to do with mistress Shore! I tell thee, fellow,
He closes with you in this consequence;
My lord, I hear none.
To him you follow'st! I will pay thy graces
Creatures of note for mercy-lacking uses.
Let's have your company, or, if you please,
I say gud-day, Captain Fluellen.
I will most willingly attend your ladyship.
I must employ you in some business
So stain our judgment, or corrupt our hope,
companions, is all ready, and all things neat?
Or else for ever be confixed here,
For not bestowing on him, at his asking,
Of raging waste? It cannot hold; it will not.
Up: so. How is 't? Feel you your legs? You stand.
Are you not ashamed? I think you have killed the
This was a goodly person,
Into the abysm of hell. If he mislike
Fare thee well. Remain thou still in darkness:
'Justice, and your father's wrath, should he take me
More than my shanks and wrists: you good gods, give me
The adulterate Hastings, Rivers, Vaughan, Grey,
The proudest peer in the realm shall not wear a head
Harry, withdraw thyself; thou bleed'st too much.
It did, it did; alas the day, it did!
Of wreakful heaven, whose bare unhoused trunks,
come by him where he stands, by ones, by twos, and
I' faith, I am sorry that thou art not well.
By me obey'd!
lie.
By man's oppression; and the poor worm doth die for't.
Excursions. Enter RICHARD and CLIFFORD
You should then have accosted her; and with some
ANTIPHOLUS
The cry of Talbot serves me for a sword;
Yourself pronounce their office. I must tell you,
skin hangs about me like an like an old lady's loose
But my unspotted fire of love to you.
Go, get you home, you fragments!
Do you hear, sir? To leave frivolous circumstances,
Thomas the Earl of Surrey, and himself,
That no man hath access by day to her.
An honest man he is, and hates the slime
virginity and devours up all the fry it finds.
That, had he twenty heads to tender down
Affected eminence, wealth, sovereignty;
Messala,
For by that loss I will not purchase them.
That nothing sung but death to us and ours:
--give, when she is able to overtake seventeen years
[Aside]  Doctors doubt that: if Anne Page be my
By heaven, it is as proper to our age
But have been waked by his timorous dreams.
Now heaven forfend! the holy maid with child!
Tell him I'll send Duke Edmund to the Tower;
Let her not strike me. You perhaps may think,
Your mother lives a witness to that vow--
With giving him glory.
Desires access to you.
What shall betide the Duke of Somerset?
And not bewray thy treason with a blush?
Than did the fault before it was so patch'd.
Think'st thou that I will leave my kingly throne,
Be avised, sir, and pass good humours: I will say
master Vincentio! now we are undone and brought to nothing.
Upon mine honour, sir, I heard a humming,
were more than they can commend.
Reigns that which would be fear'd: 'tis much he dares;
Here, here she comes. I'll have a bout with thee;
Pray you, go fit you to the custom and
In this appeal as thou art all unjust;
Exit POLONIUS
To taste of thy most worst? Thy tyranny
Adoptedly; as school-maids change their names
All with me's meet that I can fashion fit.
hath seen such scarecrows. I'll not march through
Exeunt
And plead my passions for Lavinia's love.
See, your guests approach:
And so will he do; for the man doth fear God,
By heaven, I will ne'er come in your bed
With shallow jesters and rash bavin wits,
As if the world should cleave, and that slain men
A light for Monsieur Judas! it grows dark, he may stumble.
Enter GRUMIO
Wherein he puts alms for oblivion,
I will tell you
of Paris my lord, who's there in person; with him,
Than baits to fish, or honey-stalks to sheep,
You do not give the cheer: the feast is sold
'Tis the ninth hour o' the morn.
Most free in his reply.
One of this kind is Cassio:
What 'twere to lose it, and be miserable!
Made good the passage; cried to those that fled,
Upon his party.
As it hath fated her to be my motive
And chide the cripple tardy-gaited night
Than is your majesty: there's not, I think, a subject
No; for my manly heart doth yearn.
Here comes that which grows to the stalk; never
herb-grace o' Sundays: O you must wear your rue with
And there did seem in him a kind of joy
Your eyes, which hitherto have borne in them
What! art thou, like the adder, waxen deaf?
How 'scapes he agues, in the devil's name?
A twofold marriage, 'twixt my crown and me,
I am not in the giving vein to-day.
He! no, she'll none of him; they two are twain.
chapped hands and threw up their sweaty night-caps
Sweetly in force unto her fair life's end.
one need not lend to another; for, were your
Be of good comfort; for the great supply
The music, ho!
Ah, none but in this iron age would do it!
Wherefore! Why, doth not every earthly thing
Say, Somerville, what says my loving son?
But he loves Caesar best; yet he loves Antony:
You are old enough now, and yet, methinks, you lose.
That scarce, some two days since, were worth a noble.
Or have we eaten on the insane root
Where is thy master, Dromio? is he well?
On his fair worth and single chivalry.
Thus do all traitors:
Base dunghill villain and mechanical,
Tell me whereon the likelihood depends.
Hail to you, provost! so I think you are.
that you frame the season for your own harvest.
Laugh at his challenge.
Exeunt FLORIZEL, PERDITA, and CAMILLO
Prince of Wales, as I have read in the chronicles,
A false conclusion: I hate it as an unfilled can.
What mean you, madam? by my life, my troth,
And given way unto this course of fortune.
Please it you,
In following this usurping Henry.
disease our better mirth.
Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER
when thou gavest thy golden one away. If I speak
The dun and factious nobles of the Greeks
Blow me about in winds! roast me in sulphur!
I saw her laid low in her kindred's vault,
Mark Antony, shall we give sign of battle?
Doth the moon shine that night we play our play?
this dream: it shall be called Bottom's Dream,
Alack, too weak the conflict to support!
'hereafter' the kneading, the making of the cake, the
Alarum. Enter KING RICHARD III and RICHMOND; they  fight. KING RICHARD III is slain. Retreat and  flourish. Re-enter RICHMOND, DERBY bearing the crown, with divers other Lords
To every purpose! O thou touch of hearts!
Our uncle York lord governor of England;
My lord, I'll hit him now.
Things for the cook, sir; but I know not what.
feel, to thy cold comfort, for being slow in thy hot office?
O master! what a strange infection
Ay, my good lord.
SCENE III. The same. A street.
The master-cord on's heart!
Pace 'em not in their hands to make 'em gentle,
Tut, man, one fire burns out another's burning,
I found it in my chamber:
Dead.
That Harry Duke of Hereford, Rainold Lord Cobham,
I must catechise you for it, madonna: good my mouse
will be known to-night, or never. Be you in the
By the bad voice.
ACT IV
That have a father kill'd, a mother stain'd,
By my troth, sir, no; though it please you to be
Let's raise the siege: why live we idly here?
That he dined not at home, but was lock'd out.
all sorts enchantingly beloved, and indeed so much
Aufidius, and you Volsces, mark; for we'll
SCENE I. A wood near Athens.
That so neglected you.
Out of this fearful country!
There stripp'd himself, and here upon his arm
Your worship's wife, my mistress at the Phoenix;
To have mistrusted her: yet, O my daughter!
Say you the like to him?
Commodity, the bias of the world,
If ever you have look'd on better days,
Isidore's Servant	         Your steward puts me off, my lord;
What is her mother?
Your own renowned knowledge; quite forego
This is a gentle provost: seldom when
As stars with trains of fire and dews of blood,
I rest much bounden to you: fare you well.
Than twenty times the value of the sum
Now, at the latest minute of the hour,
What do ye ask of me, my friend?
And then in post he came from Mantua
When with a volley of our needless shot,
His cupbearer,--whom I from meaner form
The art of our necessities is strange,
He 'scaped the land, to perish at the sea.
My heart is great; but it must break with silence,
Exeunt
Which signify what hate they bear their emperor
Exeunt AGAMEMNON and NESTOR
With baleful weeds and precious-juiced flowers.
ere you're ware: you'll be so true to him, to be
if you hold your life at any price, betake you to
kindnesses I am most infinitely tied. Reflect upon
Be bride to you, if you this assurance;
And chides with thinking.
To let you enter his unpeopled house.
now in as low an ebb as the foot of the ladder
I would applaud thee to the very echo,
Ay, I praise God; and I have merited some love at
And he will, after his sour fashion, tell you
It may well be;
Is altogether just: therefore bring forth,
For so appears this fleet majestical,
Also stabs BASSIANUS, who dies
Be merry, for our time of stay is short
If you do not, if I be left alone,
you will have leave,
Say how I loved you, speak me fair in death;
And, coasting homeward, came to Ephesus;
defeated the law and outrun native punishment,
they are slanders; sixth and lastly, they have
Shall pay full dearly for this encounter,
undergo those employments wherein I should have
Arise, you shall not kneel:
Prithee, peace.
'Tybalt is dead, and Romeo--banished;'
The mayor towards Guildhall hies him in all post:
When I have told you that, I have told you all.
Enter ALCIBIADES, with drum and fife, in warlike manner; PHRYNIA and TIMANDRA
at their money: these debts may well be called
that my lord your son was upon his return home, I
For general sovereignty; and that he will'd me
Could ever hear by tale or history,
And tugg'd for life and was by strength subdued:
In hope thyself should govern Rome and me.
Ay, it is no matter.
Long since we were resolved of your truth,
'Tis passing good: I prithee let me have it.
But, God be thank'd, there's no need of me,
Being opposites of such repairing nature.
Norfolk, for thee remains a heavier doom,
SCENE II. Before ALBANY's palace.
down indirectly to the Jew's house.
I am not gamesome: I do lack some part
Thus contumeliously should break the peace!
We speak no treason, man: we say the king
Masters, you ought to consider with yourselves: to
Even he that makes her queen who should be else?
And send him word by me which way you go.
Why dost thou stay?
Were you the doctor and I knew you not?
Dear brother, how shall Bona be revenged
Your wondrous rare description, noble earl,
Here they bear away his body. Exeunt
I am sorry for thee: thou art come to answer
So graze as you find pasture.
Here comes the prince and Claudio.
Believe her lips in opening it. Proceed.
One way or other, she is for a king;
By saying that a costard was broken in a shin.
I am stuffed, cousin; I cannot smell.
For in the book of Numbers is it writ,
Exeunt all but KENT and Gentleman
Vengeance is in my heart, death in my hand,
Come, sister. Dromio, play the porter well.
Enter MARIA and Clown
RICHARD
You have been a boggler ever:
But she may learn; happier than this,
Most manifest, and not denied by himself.
My master's.
But let her rest in her unrest awhile.
I would I were;
That handkerchief which I so loved and gave thee
Cannot be seen or heard: do but look up.
To all that fortune, death and danger dare,
Well, come what will, I'll tarry at home.
Which join'd with him and made their march for Bourdeaux.
Try what repentance can: what can it not?
We, ignorant of ourselves,
And to conclude, the shepherd's homely curds,
A noise of targets, or to see a fellow
And, for that purpose, I'll anoint my sword.
Hot and rebellious liquors in my blood,
By this our book is drawn; we'll but seal,
bowels, thou!
Make us strange stuff.
These eyes that never did nor never shall
Upon this blasted heath you stop our way
This your request
should end it.
Who may that be, I pray you?
Enter JOAN LA PUCELLE, guarded, and a Shepherd
Turning with splendor of his precious eye
Great griefs, I see, medicine the less; for Cloten
O mistress mine, where are you roaming?
To clustering filberts and sometimes I'll get thee
it would have run all out.
Here's a few flowers; but 'bout midnight, more:
My mirth it much displeased, but pleased my woe.
Mistress Mary, if you prized my lady's favour at any
A sennet. Enter, with actors before them, COMINIUS  the consul, MENENIUS, CORIOLANUS, Senators,  SICINIUS and BRUTUS. The Senators take their  places; the Tribunes take their Places by themselves. CORIOLANUS stands
Or thou wert born a fool. Camillo's flight,
Who, my master?
What, standest thou still, and hearest such a
We are no tyrant, but a Christian king;
And wring the awful sceptre from his fist,
Come, Casca, you and I will yet ere day
Which is one?
The heavens with that we have in hand are angry
And let him ply his music.
I know thee well; how dost thou, my good fellow?
And, often but attended with weak guard,
I do protest, I never injured thee,
This day she was both pantler, butler, cook,
I prithee, do so.
Hath made her break out into terms of rage!
Our cheeks and hollow eyes do witness it.
Of fruitful land, all which shall be her jointure.
Holloa me like a hare.
Nay, by'r our lady, that I think a' cannot.
Enter two Gentlemen
take note of it; and assure thyself, there is no
I oft found both: I urge this childhood proof,
To heal Rome's harms, and wipe away her woe!
tres-puissant seigneur.
To wit, an indigested and deformed lump,
To die when I desire.
Did haunt you in the field.
I think Alexander the Great was born in Macedon; his
SCENE XIII. Alexandria. Cleopatra's palace.
Kneels
Prithee, be silent, boy; I profit not by thy talk:
Enter PETRUCHIO, KATHARINA, VINCENTIO, GRUMIO, with Attendants
Though this a heavenly angel, hell is here.
And, this last night, here in Philippi fields:
Exeunt
Unto the daughter of a worthless king,
To let these hands obey my blood,
And thus I win thee.
Where is the foolish knave I sent before?
And that was all?
Shall all be done by the rule. Good night, dear lady.
commend me to thy honourable virtuous lord, my very
Will you vouchsafe with me to change a word?
I will, my lord. There are two gentlemen
Without much shame retold or spoken of.
Above the sense of sense; so sensible
A guard of patience: stay a little while.
Exeunt WORCESTER and VERNON
To cast thee up again. What may this mean,
Very true, sir; he, sir, he; that's the rogue that
By accident most strange, bountiful Fortune,
Both full of truth, I make King Lewis behold
A thievish living on the common road?
The edge of war, like an ill-sheathed knife,
What, did he marry me to famish me?
SCENE IV. A hall in the same.
Exit
We need not put new matter to his charge:
Most worthy brother England; fairly met:
This viperous traitor: to eject him hence
die a bawd.
Then, my queen, in silence sad,
I should my tears let fall upon your cheek,
Sure, he that made us with such large discourse,
But, if we live, we'll be as sharp with you.
And says a wizard told him that by G
Heavens grant that Warwick's words bewitch him not!
And so doth mine: I muse why she's at liberty.
Straight let us seek, or straight we shall be sought;
From those that wish the downfall of our house!
Wherein, my friends, have I offended you?
Lo, how hollow the fiend speaks within him! did not
Who gives any thing to poor Tom? whom the foul
O comfortable friar! where is my lord?
Should by the minute feed on life and lingering
Save me, and hover o'er me with your wings,
And O shall end, I hope.
Be hang'd up for example at their doors:
And that same prayer doth teach us all to render
Exeunt Host and BARDOLPH
Hear the king's pleasure, cardinal: who commands you
So clear, so shining and so evident
Shall be my winding-sheet. Why faint you, lords?
To bring thee to the gallows, not the font.
And this our life exempt from public haunt
and thus the whirligig of time brings in his revenges.
Hath Leonato any son, my lord?
It holds his estimate and dignity
More grave and wrinkled than the aims and ends
All tongues to talk their bitterest.
And he will bless that cross with other beating:
I life would wish, and that I might
Noble prince,
I think so too.
Stood pretty dimpled boys, like smiling Cupids,
Which shall to all our nights and days to come
All which we pine for now: and this report
How do you, sir? Stand you not so amazed:
To shallow--
Lives almost by his looks; and for myself--
How many make the hour full complete;
Or, rather, do I not in plainest truth
It strikes where it doth love. She wakes.
Worthy his frowning at: their discipline,
Either withdraw unto some private place,
Of many faces, eyes and hearts,
The breath of heaven has blown his spirit out
Can he not be sociable?
SCENE III. A road near the Shepherd's cottage.
Ay, my good lord; your royal preparation
It is in us to plant thine honour where
O most pernicious woman!
SCENE III. The Grecian camp. Before Achilles' tent.
And two such shores to two such streams made one,
As ever oak or stone was sound.
It is my father's will I should take on me
In manners, as in shape! thy blood and virtue
It adds a precious seeing to the eye;
I am sick and sullen.
Upon our fields.
Or I shall show the cinders of my spirits
And therefore do they cry, though you forbid,
Jaques Chatillon, Rambures, Vaudemont,
Ha!
Lose the tide, and the voyage, and the master, and
The matter is to me, sir, as concerning Jaquenetta.
Is daughter to this famous Duke of Milan,
Ere I arise, I will prefer my sons;
When power to flattery bows? To plainness honour's bound,
SCENE III. The forest.
So fitly? Go, bid all my friends again,
his valour: what is his honesty?
That our garments, being, as they were, drenched in
And then comes answer like an Absey book:
true, think you?
We must have bloody noses and crack'd crowns,
Is the prince there in person?
For every inch of woman in the world,
Nay, if thy wits run the wild-goose chase, I have
Did scowl on gentle Richard; no man cried 'God save him!'
Stand fast, Titinius: we must out and talk.
How now there!
place as I would they should do theirs, to for my
Five and twenty, sir.
That I did kill them.
sometime like a lawyer; sometime like a philosopher,
What means this noise?
And cited up a thousand fearful times,
How accompanied?
worm is your only emperor for diet: we fat all
We'll put the matter to the present push.
the insinuating nod and be off to them most
Yea, that she did: but yet, for all that, an if she
Allaying both their fury and my passion
If Caesar hide himself, shall they not whisper
Go to, then: we'll use this unwholesome humidity,
a compelled valour, and in the grapple I boarded
This and these pearls to me sent Longaville:
I doubt not, I, but we shall soon persuade
One foot in sea and one on shore,
Methinks our pleasure might have been demanded,
Then meet and join. Jove's lightnings, the precursors
Thy sly conveyance and thy lord's false love;
mouths, sir.'
Enter TALBOT, BEDFORD, BURGUNDY, a Captain, and others
Have pluck'd my nipple from his boneless gums,
And bid me give it thee? Didst thou not hear their shouts?
what a wardrobe here is for thee!
March gently on to meet him.
If so, I have derision medicinable,
O, that it were as like as it is true!
I had rather want those than my head. Have at you!
this night in a dance: and if he found her
interrupt the monster one word further, and,
I thank my noble lord. Wilt thou be pleased to
Let's all cry 'Peace, freedom and liberty!'
Cry fie upon my grave!
Why, Buckingham, is the traitor Cade surprised?
should impart a thing to you from his majesty.
First, forward to the temple: after dinner
And this his son; England was Geffrey's right
Enter a Father that has killed his son, bringing in the body
What news from Oxford? hold those justs and triumphs?
Most welcome, sir!
after my degree, but fellow. Why, every thing
my spiteful execrations. Then there's Achilles, a
Stay, stay, I say!
Grievous complaints of you; which, being consider'd,
Why me, Timon?
marry, and amen! Give me a cup of sack, boy. Ere I
could not so prosperously be delivered of. I will
That we were all, as some would seem to be,
In Venice they do let heaven see the pranks
Thou bid'st me to my loss: for true to thee
And throw it from their soul; though perils did
Why, what a king is this!
Where is he?
Was by the rough seas reft of ships and men,
And let my liver rather heat with wine
Learning is but an adjunct to ourself
From whence himself does fly? He loves us not;
His arms thus leagued: I thought he slept, and put
Now, by the faith of my love, I will: tell me
Confirm it so! Confounded be your strife!
No.
I will reward you for this venturous deed.
The devil take one party and his dam the other! and
What shall be done? he will not hear, till feel:
That it do singe yourself: we may outrun,
So much I hate a breaking cause to be
This letter. That's her chamber. Tell my lady
As true thou tell'st me, when I say I love her;
evenly with mine. How canst thou cross this marriage?
Call our cares fears; which will in time
To the forfended place?
No, I'll none of it: I pray thee keep that for the
SCENE IV. London. The Tower.
Now, sir, is your name Menenius?
Yield, cur!
I pray you and beseech you that you will.
In private brabble did we apprehend him.
Who long'st, like me, to see thy lord; who long'st,--
To MOTH
ye for a young prince, i' faith.
Will you not eat your word?
I cry you mercy, sir; and well could wish
And who doth lead them but a paltry fellow,
Home both in word and deed. Most cruelly
Let noble Warwick, Cobham, and the rest,
Bless this unworthy husband? he cannot thrive,
And help to dress your sister's chamber up:
Spoke, with how manifold and strong a bond
Well fare you, gentleman: give me your hand;
Sweet love! sweet lines! sweet life!
We are less afraid to be drowned than thou art.
Then I must not say no.
Pardon me, sir, the boldness is mine own,
Some two months hence my will shall here be made:
Should become kings of Naples? O, rejoice
A hit, a very palpable hit.
transgression is in the stealer.
And we shall feed like oxen at a stall,
Enter HENRY PERCY
With the dove of Paphos might the crow
bound to answer the particular endings of his
With Angelo to-night shall lie
O monstrous world! Take note, take note, O world,
And strain what other means is left unto us
Will do as if for surety. He holds me well;
Shall lodge thee till thy wound be thoroughly heal'd;
Proceeded to you; therefore take your honours.
I could endure any thing before but a cat, and now
thought, because he could not speak English in the
For, lords, to-morrow is a busy day.
Diana, aid my purpose!
To Roger Earl of March, who was the son
[Reads]  'Great deputy, the welkin's vicegerent and
your promise.
To the strict deputy; bid herself assay him:
Some offer me commodities to buy:
and so dance out the answer. For, hear me, Hero:
To you, the liver, heart and brain of Britain,
Where the disease is violent. Lay hands upon him,
The gods preserve our noble tribunes! Come.
Is come indeed, when I should see behind me
Thou comest to use thy tongue; thy story quickly.
A bitter fool!
As he is proud to do't.
I took no more pains for those thanks than you take
Wilt take thy chance with me? I will not say
Last night the very gods show'd me a vision--
Since, lords of England, it is thus agreed
If wrongs be evils and enforce us kill,
Princes, that strive by factions and by friends
Farewell, my lord: what you shall know meantime
Be you beneath the sky.
And he that sleeps here swims.
If Tamora entreat him, then he will:
And then betwixt me and my married wife.
By this great clatter, one of greatest note
For we'll create young Arthur Duke of Bretagne
I fear you have done yourself some wrong: a word.
'Tis two or three, my lord, that bring you word
In daily thanks, that gave us such a prince;
SCENE I. Padua. A public place.
Will I lend ear to. Ha! what shout is this?
Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
Whilst I at home starve for a merry look.
Let us address to tend on Hector's heels:
Howsoe'er 'tis strange,
Forbad my tongue to speak of Mortimer;
Out of your proof you speak: we, poor unfledged,
What means the nun? she dies! help, gentlemen!
I cannot daub it further.
with me till they meet together.
Fasten'd ourselves at either end the mast;
Where did you buy it? or who gave it you?
That now they are at fall, want treasure, cannot
In this which you accuse her.
How under my oppression I did reek,
own child. Well, old man, I will tell you news of
Look you sad, friends?
Makes Welsh as sweet as ditties highly penn'd,
with a grace?
Shout within. 'A Lancaster! A Lancaster!'
More fit to do another such offence
give express charge, that in our marches through the
You charge me most unjustly.
Cousin, on Wednesday next our council we
Gentle madam, no.
You are mistaken: the one may be sold, or given, if
SCENE I. A sea-port in Sicilia.
How if a' will not stand?
Most sweet voices!
else be incontinent before marriage: they are in
in. What should such fellows as I do crawling
Of his oath-breaking; which he mended thus,
No, sir, God forbid; but ashamed to kiss.
In our last conference, pass'd in probation with you,
wooing. But I protest to thee, pretty one, my
Who by thy wisdom makest a prince thy servant,
glad to receive. I am confessor to Angelo, and I
For most it caught me, the celestial habits,
What say ye, countrymen? will ye relent,
Patroclus' wounds have roused his drowsy blood,
Torment myself to catch the English crown:
And, in the fleshment of this dread exploit,
Or, if thou wilt, swear by thy gracious self,
Prophetically doth forethink thy fall.
amazed; call all your senses to you; defend your
That hath received an alms! I will not do't,
O thou well skill'd in curses, stay awhile,
I find in hardness, and do undertake
Once more, well met at Cyprus.
That this remotion of the duke and her
I won his daughter.
I have been broad awake two hours and more.
Exeunt
Monster, lay-to your fingers: help to bear this
My soul is in the sky:
The which if He be pleased I shall perform,
If I achieve not this young modest girl.
Hath left mine arm: it was thy master's: 'shrew me,
Or pay you with unthankfulness in thought,
Exit
If he arise, be mock'd and wonder'd at.
Opening the leaden casket
By holy marriage: when and where and how
Came this from Hamlet to her?
a laced mutton, and she, a laced mutton, gave me, a
shower of rain as well as Jove.
Why, stay, and hear me speak.
I'ld drive ye cackling home to Camelot.
Claudio be executed by four of the clock; and in the
My excellent good friends! How dost thou,
Came short of composition, but in chief
But touch this sparingly, as 'twere far off,
That even our love durst not come near your sight
In thy hand clutch'd as many millions, in
Philemon, ho!
GHOST OF BANQUO vanishes
He was brought to this
He is a very proper man.
And when I have heard it, what blessing brings it?
She pray'd me to excuse her keeping close,
Thou look'st like him that knows a warlike charge:
think this was well counterfeited! I pray you, tell
My foot shall fight with all the strength thou hast;
In the relief of this oppressed child
So take her to thee, shepherd: fare you well.
But from Lord Angelo by special charge.
You should have fear'd false times when you did feast:
For young hot colts being raged do rage the more.
Do breed unnatural troubles: infected minds
I warrant him, Petruchio is Kated.
Be done in this and all things! I obey.
am out of the road of rutting for ever.
By heaven, brat, I'll plague ye for that word.
give him gold; and though authority be a stubborn
Knowing that thou wouldst have me drown'd on shore,
To put on better ere he go to church.
He bores me with some trick: he's gone to the king;
An it had not fallen flat-long.
More than your force move us to gentleness.
To suck, to suck, the very blood to suck!
You may go to the devil's dam: your gifts are so
So, so: farewell; we are gone.
She is no match for you.
servant, under his master's command transporting a
course of gratitude, but be a diligent follower of
Let him appear.
Who cannot keep his wealth must keep his house.
That she which marries you must marry me,
Your lack of love or bounty, you were straited
office of love, but in all the accoutrement,
Why, what tumultuous clamour have we here?
I shall be furnish'd to inform you rightly
And rack thee in their fancies.
I will not fail your ladyship. Good morrow, gentle lady.
You should find better dealing. What's to do?
We stay here for the people.
That all the standers-by had wet their cheeks
Cursed be the heart that had the heart to do it!
grammar school; and whereas, before, our forefathers
had losses, and one that hath two gowns and every
There is, betwixt that smile we would aspire to,
I' the boldness of your speech.
Lays down his wanton siege before her beauty,
True, so I am.
calls not on me? Well, 'tis no matter; honour pricks
Of bare distress hath ta'en from me the show
Well, well, 'tis done, 'tis past: and yet it is not;
Keep off aloof with worthless emulation.
As it might be, perhaps, were I a woman,
I would not be the villain that thou think'st
May hourly fall upon ye!
Attends the emperor in his royal court.
In their assign'd and native dwelling-place.
'Tis just:
And her pale fire she snatches from the sun:
less to you.
The corse they follow did with desperate hand
The Fool runs out from the hovel
Do you see this, O God?
Caesar, I shall.
That he shall not offend your majesty.
Nor the prevention of poor Bolingbroke
But altogether lacks the abilities
Hath caused to belch up you; and on this island
rail against all the first-born of Egypt.
SCENE VII. Baynard's Castle.
As I do know the consul's worthiness,
My legs are longer though, to run away.
In me to lose: thus your own proper wisdom
Will drive away distemper. To some shade,
With letters of entreaty, which imported
our strange sights: he must know 'tis none of your
She that you gaze on so as she sits at supper?
Begin these wood-birds but to couple now?
Riding, her fortunes brought the maid aboard us,
Your reason?
I made no spare, sir.
What, what! good cheer! Why, how now, Charmian!
And I will follow, more to cross that love
Your lord sends now for money.
O my distressed lord, even such our griefs are;
The seasons' difference, as the icy fang
To offer war where they should kneel for peace;
Have I liked several women; never any
Be quite contrary: and thatch your poor thin roofs
These few days' wonder will be quickly worn.
Exeunt
respects, makes a beast a man, in some other, a man
I desire no more.
first. Come.
you have found him than he was when you sought him:
and this man out of prison?
The worthiness of praise distains his worth,
and lay it to your heart: it is the only thing for a qualm.
The villain Jew with outcries raised the duke,
It likes us well; young princes, close your hands.
All repetition: let him not ask our pardon;
Advance our standards, set upon our foes
Then you are weakly made: pluck off a little;
My hand, bully; thou shalt have egress and regress;
O thou vile one!
Enter ISABELLA
Of all the favourites that the absent king
With variable complexions, all agreeing
Invites me in this churlish messenger.
O, I could hew up rocks and fight with flint,
I'll have an Iris that shall find thee out.
Now, in thy likeness, one more fool appear!
you something to know it.
I do retort the 'solus' in thy bowels;
The music of the spheres! List, my Marina.
Than we to stretch it out.
Then comes the time, who lives to see't,
'O no, no, no, no, you dare not.'
And health on both!
Has he dined, canst thou tell? for I would not
Throned and set high?--servants, who seem no less,
Ay, sir, the sergeant of the band, he that brings
Enter DUKE
Buck, buck, buck! Ay, buck; I warrant you, buck;
How long will a man lie i' the earth ere he rot?
Thus to excuse yourself.
Which art my near'st and dearest enemy?
I'll have thy beauty scratch'd with briers, and made
That, in regard King Henry gives consent,
But say, I could not help it.
Till then, 'tis wisdom to conceal our meaning.
O villain, villain! His very opinion in the
Who, much enforced, shows a hasty spark,
for they loved well when they were alive. Now part
Spotted, detested, and abominable.
And brought Prince Henry in their company;
O Ned, sweet Ned! speak to thy mother, boy!
No more than I am well acquitted of.
Sith I have cause and will and strength and means
Has censured him
enticements, oaths, tokens, and all these engines of
That I have had of thee!
Seize thee that list: if once I find thee ranging,
Well, is this captain in the duke of Florence's camp?
He sent in writing after me; what he would not,
But how hath she
My master's enemy.
followers. Go you and prepare Aliena; for look
most required and necessary.
Enter KING HENRY VI, disguised, with a prayerbook
Good my liege,
God and your arms be praised, victorious friends,
As I kiss thee. Nay, do not snatch it from me;
soul dares not present itself: she is too bright to
The very way to catch them.
should he do here?
PINDARUS descends
Hot livers and cold purses.
Of Bolingbroke: their fortunes both are weigh'd:
More nor less to others paying
When thou shalt see I'll meet thee to thy cost.
Vouchsafe to those that have not read the story,
We will afflict the emperor in his pride.
Where both not sin, and yet a sinful fact:
It greets me as an enterprise of kindness
That darkness does the face of earth entomb,
Even here I will put off my hope and keep it
You're shallow, madam, in great friends; for the
Come I too late?
Which by us shall blessed be;
they have approved their virtues.
And by relating tales of others' griefs,
Not Afric owns a serpent I abhor
On Athens, ripe for stroke! Thou cold sciatica,
I am glad he went not in himself: if he had found
Think upon Vaughan, and, with guilty fear,
may, though they cannot praise us, as little accuse
And here an engine fit for my proceeding.
May it please your highness to resolve me now;
O, peace, Paulina!
Mark Antony, here, take you Caesar's body.
Look, if it please you, on this man condemn'd,
for a day of kings' entreaties a mother should not
excel thee in my rapier as much as thou didst me in
Thy spirits all of comfort! fare thee well.
Come, come, elder brother, you are too young in this.
And so doth yours; your fault was not your folly:
Before the king will grant her humble suit.
My sword, I say! Old Montague is come,
But, with the first of all your chief affairs,
These wrongs, unspeakable, past patience,
Full of crusadoes: and, but my noble Moor
The high imperial type of this earth's glory.
If every one knows us and we know none,
Reignier, Duke of Anjou, doth take his part;
A fair name. Wast born i' the forest here?
O, sir,--
against all married mankind; so curses all Eve's
Enter FERDINAND, bearing a log
His heart-struck injuries.
But, as I think, it was by the cardinal;
O, methought, there was nothing meet.
No, I am an ape.
my daughter: but 'tis no matter; better a little
I charge thee in the princes name, obey.
Of this their purpose hither to this wood;
Exeunt IAGO and Attendants
when he would have walked ten mile a-foot to see a
Which they will make an obedient father.
To what base uses we may return, Horatio! Why may
Nay, it perchance will sparkle in your eyes;
In face, in gait, in speech, he doth resemble:
Peace, ho! the moon sleeps with Endymion
Your hostages I have, so have you mine;
I do beseech you,
She's an adulteress; I have said with whom:
clock. Our general cast us thus early for the love
O Tamora, be call'd a gentle queen,
A bloody deed! almost as bad, good mother,
O, je vous supplie, pour l'amour de Dieu, me
For such a one as leaves a gentleman,
She doth indeed; my daughter says so: and the
Should I not curse them. Poison be their drink!
Or be admitted to your highness' council.
Your gracious self, embrace but my direction:
your several dwelling-places; and not to wear,
Which, as a grise or step, may help these lovers
I'll serve thee true and faithfully till then.
To worship shadows and adore false shapes,
Of the new'st and finest, finest wear-a?
There's Dolabella sent from Caesar; call him.
I tell you, he that can lay hold of her
It is spoke freely out of many mouths--
beyond Eton, they threw me off from behind one of
Came smiling, and did bathe their hands in it:
Re-enter BERTRAM, guarded
O my sweet lady, pardon.
A poor unlearned virgin, when the schools,
Except like curs to tear us all to pieces.
base, proud, shallow, beggarly, three-suited,
No, I will speak as liberal as the north:
Enter MALCOLM and DONALBAIN
The city is well stored.
As does a Briton peasant: so I'll fight
Drops earliest to the ground; and so let me
The prayers of priests nor times of sacrifice,
With a swain's wearing, and me, poor lowly maid,
And purge it to a sound and pristine health,
Which when he has a house, he'll deck withal
How prove you that, in the great heap of your
Now know you, Casca, I have moved already
My marvel and my message. To your court
The manner of his speech; for't cannot be
Art thou gone so? I do but stay behind
Crowd to his presence, where their untaught love
thing. The wills above be done! but I would fain
Enter HENRY PERCY
You, that have so fair parts of woman on you,
If the king had no son, they would desire to live
Exeunt
Now, in good time, here comes the Duke of York.
Much under him; of him I gather'd honour;
That shall demonstrate these quick blows of Fortune's
That will be music.
Lords, with one cheerful voice welcome my love.
Then, in the name of God and all these rights,
You have stayed me in a happy hour: I was about to
To several subjects. Heaven hath my empty words;
When she first met Mark Antony, she pursed up
So should you be.
Whose better issue in the war, from Italy,
God's name. Go, take him away, I say, and strike
As the Antipodes are unto us,
God be wi' you! I have done.
To front this present time.
Exeunt BERTRAM and Lords
Or who should study to prefer a peace.
The story that is printed in her blood?
William, sir.
Thou took'st a beggar; wouldst have made my throne
And have you nuns no farther privileges?
I extend my hand to him thus, quenching my familiar
This man hath had good counsel:--a hundred knights!
Neither rhyme nor reason can express how much.
were not Thersites; for I care not to be the louse
For underneath an alehouse' paltry sign,
house; charged me, on pain of their perpetual
That you shall rest but little. God forgive me,
Which I hope well is not enrolled there:
And so am I for Phebe.
It is qui, quae, quod: if you forget your 'quies,'
'Twere better for you if it were known in counsel:
Exeunt Salarino and Salanio
Pray for me! I must now forsake ye: the last hour
But when in other habits you are seen,
Up to the breach, you dogs! avaunt, you cullions!
You are too bitter to your countrywoman.
SCENE IV. The FRENCH KING's palace.
I prithee, boy, run to the senate-house;
And labour shall refresh itself with hope,
altered! 'No man must know:' if this should be
On your suggestion.
If he govern the country, you are bound to him
Untimely smother'd in their dusky graves.
A' could never abide carnation; 'twas a colour he
No.
You patch'd up your excuses.
Then, as the manner of our country is,
Fie on sinful fantasy!
been troubled with a pernicious suitor. I thank God
In God's name, lead; your king's name be obey'd:
Nay, I am sure it is, Volumnius.
He might have bought me at a common price:
Once touch my shoulder. Great the slaughter is
The gods be good to us! Come, masters, let's home.
Write down thy mind, bewray thy meaning so,
You may not come, fair princess, in my gates;
Now be a freeman: and with this good sword,
Madam, the Lady Valeria is come to visit you.
all, if there is not better directions.
Go to my cave and tell me. Good old man,
Whereof perchance these are but furnishings;
I speak amazedly; and it becomes
Come, vial.
Your highness shall repose you at the Tower:
As i' the command of Caesar: I dare him therefore
appointment, to be ourselves.
You taught me language; and my profit on't
And so it is. For this time I will leave you:
Shall I put him into the basket again?
Neighbours and friends, though bride and
To France, sweet Suffolk: let me hear from thee;
What, strike his wife!
O Richard! York is too far gone with grief,
Exit
S. Withold footed thrice the old;
And give it way: I know thou canst not choose.
Hath made thee handless in thy father's sight?
Why, how are we censured?
Let's away; follow me.
with comforts,
That would make good of bad, and friends of foes!
the burly-boned clown in chines of beef ere thou
That gave the affront with them.
within these two hours; and so, come in when ye will.
Their bands i' the vaward are the Antiates,
abate her nothing, though I profess myself her
That every Roman bears, and nobly bears,
The meered question: 'twas a shame no less
That I have given no answer all this while;
Well, sir.
Ay, madam, with his eyes in flood with laughter:
SCENE IV. LANGLEY. The DUKE OF YORK's garden.
SCENE II. Mytilene. A room in a brothel.
Enter DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO, MOTH, and COSTARD
We do, sir; tell us what hath brought you to't.
Truly, for mine own part, I would little or nothing
though I say it, though old man, yet poor man, my father.
But ere I last received the sacrament
My master and his man are both broke loose,
Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS, and ALEXAS
than beauteous, truer than truth itself, have
sprite: I'll fetch her. It is the prettiest
Methought I had; and often did I strive
Let the supposed fairies pinch him sound
These signs forerun the death or fall of kings.
And all the better is it for the maid:
The swallow follows not summer more willing than we
By Jove,
She is dead.
See what a rent the envious Casca made:
O, I am press'd to death through want of speaking!
Your servant, princes. Good my lord of Rome,
Chosen Andronicus, surnamed Pius
For soldiers' stomachs always serve them well.
I do believe it.
Enter ROSS
Be this the whetstone of your sword: let grief
is, to act, to do, to perform: argal, she drowned
Than the performance of our heaving spleens,
Exeunt
Our imputation shall be oddly poised
Can you inquire him out, and be edified by report?
If I hope well, I'll never see thee more.
Ourself will mingle with society,
The wars have so kept you under that you must needs
A worthy officer i' the war; but insolent,
Let me go grind their bones to powder small
When I should mount with wings of victory:
Trail'st thou the puissant pike?
He was but as the cuckoo is in June,
How silent is this town!--Ho! murder! murder!--
Exeunt MARK ANTONY, EROS, Captains, and Soldiers
And show itself, attire me how I can.
Cupid is a knavish lad,
Which, to the spire and top of praises vouch'd,
Who hath relieved you?
SCENE IV. OLIVIA's garden.
Of sweet young Rutland, by rough Clifford slain:
And if I were thy nurse, thy tongue to teach,
I love thee, and it is my love that speaks--
Weeping before for what she saw must come,
For quiet days, fair issue and long life,
With some sweet concert; to their instruments
They pitched in the ground confusedly,
O, sir, the conceit is deeper than you think for:
Nay, all of you that stand and look upon,
JULIET wakes
To many lords and ladies; there will be
He will, an if he live to be a man.
They pass by strangely: they were used to bend
You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltimand,
being, as I am, littered under Mercury, was likewise
So is my horse, Octavius; and for that
[To OTHELLO]  What, in your own part, can you say to this?
Were gracious in the eyes of royal Rome,
Exit
Which never shall be found--you did suspect
Pray you, come in;
Thus smiling, as some fly hid tickled slumber,
No sooner had they told this hellish tale,
Of what that want might ruin.
My noble father,
Enter four or five of the Guard of MARK ANTONY
As 'twere i' the father's person; kisses the hands
Into a great estate: when he was poor,
With hands as pale as milk;
To you I am bound for life and education;
'Twas of his nephew Proteus, your son.
And, lest thou shouldst detect him, cut thy tongue.
All cause unborn, could never be the motive
Still serve him with my life. My dearest master!
Without annoying me: and there were drawn
In every thing I wait upon his will.
Why dost thou show to the apt thoughts of men
That he which hath no stomach to this fight,
Wedded, with Theseus, all in jollity.
Scarce is dividant, touch them with several fortunes;
And say if I shall see you soon at night.
But that our honours must not. What's to say?
More than our brother is our chastity.
No, my good lord.
That I should do what I abhor to name,
It may lie gently at the foot of peace,
night, when thou spokest of Pigrogromitus, of the
Affection makes him false; he speaks not true:
The purity of his.
Has a book in his pocket with red letters in't.
Three civil brawls, bred of an airy word,
Why?
minority: his enter and exit shall be strangling a
old turning the key.
Gives him the letter
Contend for empire in thee, and thy goodness
Methought he bore him in the thickest troop
man is ever angry. Go, let him have a table by
rough things.
Truly, an honest gentleman: but Anne loves him not;
Item, Sack, two gallons, 5s. 8d.
Lest you mistake the heavens are o'er our heads.
Are of imagination all compact:
No; and swears she never will: that's her torment.
So as thou livest in peace, die free from strife:
Off with his head, and set it on York gates;
And yet 'not proud,' mistress minion, you,
A traitor to his God, his king and him;
basket again, to meet him at the door with it, as
Enter TROILUS
SCENE V. Another part of the field.
To counterfeit thus grossly with your slave,
To this dead man than you shall see me pay.
Honey, and milk, and sugar; there is three.
That death's unnatural that kills for loving.
I slew thy father, call'st thou him a child?
I stood engaged: but when I had subscribed
Are you call'd forth from out a world of men
it provokes the desire, but it takes
Laid them before you; you would throw them off,
where, if thou fear to strike and to make me certain
And beat them backward home.
Come on, lay it by: and let's first see moe
Pillicock sat on Pillicock-hill:
An I cannot, another can.
Till cruel Cleon, with his wicked wife,
Nor knew not what she did when she spoke to me,
my father is here look'd for every day,
He offers in another's enterprise;
There cannot be those numberless offences
Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
Re-enter the FRENCH KING and his QUEEN, BURGUNDY, and other Lords
Like a demigod here sit I in the sky.
Enter BANQUO, and FLEANCE with a torch
That fame may cry you loud: I say, farewell.
And the third hour of drowsy morning name.
that I utterly deny. If sack and sugar be a fault,
Thy life hath that dishonour'd.
It shows but little love or judgment in him:
And woo her with some spirit when she comes.
And means to give you battle presently.
Up, sir, go with me;
The bonny priser of the humorous duke?
Was mutually committed?
We have been called so of many; not that our heads
Exit
I did so, and went further, which is now
To the Tribunes
Read them; and know, I know your worthiness.
I am no villain.
The eye of reason may pry in upon us:
For shame, my lord of Winchester, relent!
[Reads]  I have sent you a daughter-in-law: she hath
Awake, awake!
the rest of their company from their sport, to make
And what of him, Tranio?
That mercy does, for calumny will sear
What tidings with our cousin Buckingham?
Good cousin, give me audience for a while.
But send the midwife presently to me.
overcame, three. Who came? the king: why did he
It's dry, sir.
But that thy strange mutations make us hate thee,
Since Leonatus's false.
I am thus early come to know what service
Witness the loving kiss I give the fruit.
Don John for accusing the Lady Hero wrongfully.
Judge, O you gods, how dearly Caesar loved him!
Who finds the heifer dead and bleeding fresh
thereabout of it especially, where he speaks of
And he would love me dearly as his child.
Her brother's noontide with Antipodes.
That hath to this maturity blown up
All my engagements I will construe to thee,
I did not think to draw my sword 'gainst Pompey;
a man: surely I think you have charms, la; yes, in truth.
If your mind dislike any thing, obey it: I will
Despoiled of your honour in your life,
some part of our zeals, we should think ourselves
Sirrah, naked fellow,--
man of my kidney,--think of that,--that am as subject
Where such as thou mayst find him.
Be not denied access, stand at her doors,
foul with me, Pistol, I will scour you with my
Let not young Mutius, then, that was thy joy
Now in good time, here comes the duke himself.
Thou shalt remain here, whether thou wilt or no.
That have their alms out of the empress' chest.
A man, a prince, by him so benefited!
Your ships are stay'd at Venice, and the duke,
I am sorry, sir, I have thus far stirr'd you: but
O, the devil take such cozeners! God forgive me!
And whatsoever cunning fiend it was
withers are unwrung.
But that I think his father loves him not
fly?
Never lack'd gold and yet went never gay,
Enter CATESBY
Are dogg'd with two strange followers.
And what of him? did he take interest?
Leaves Tarsus and again embarks. He swears
You may have very fit occasion for't: he is now in
O, where's young Talbot? where is valiant John?
Recking as little what betideth me
Alarum. Enter KING HENRY, EXETER, BEDFORD, GLOUCESTER, and Soldiers, with scaling-ladders
O, beware, my lord, of jealousy;
The usurping helmets of our adversaries!
God save the king! Will no man say amen?
DON
Well, I say Troilus is Troilus.
Exeunt
take it for your pains.
Did famine follow; whom thou fought'st against,
Soldiers, away with him!
That shows thee a weak slave; for the weakest goes
Didst thou not kill this king?
Why, then she's mine. Sweet, let me see your face.
They stand aloof
Music
And thought they Margaret was Hero?
and make him my waiting-gentlewoman? He that hath a
Claudio--whose estimation do you mightily hold
If music be the food of love, play on;
A pain that only seems to seek out danger
That their events can never fall out good.
Nay, good my lord,--
Royal Lear,
O ho, Petruchio! Tranio hits you now.
Exit
I peseech you heartily, scurvy, lousy knave, at my
Her hand on her bosom, her head on her knee,
Bearing their birthrights proudly on their backs,
A royal battle might be won and lost
Awake, and tell thy dream.
Her sober virtue, years and modesty,
She looks scornfully at him
It is Lord Angelo.
But poison'd flattery? O, be sick, great greatness,
Be in their flowing cups freshly remember'd.
And drive his purpose on to these delights.
Being the very fellow that of late
If you do find them deck'd with ceremonies.
Now fetch me a stool hither by and by. Now, sirrah,
John, to stop Arthur's title in the whole,
And so they are: alas, that they are so;
Yet will I add an honour, a great patience.
You found his mote; the king your mote did see;
Unless thou bring'st them with thee.
Perforce, against all cheques, rebukes and manners,
But to prorogue his grief.
So feat, so nurse-like: let his virtue join
For being a little bad: so may my husband.
sell bullocks. But did you think the prince would
the wind is loud, and will not lie till the ship be
Lay a more noble thought upon mine honour
On Mars's armour forged for proof eterne
That time of both this truth shall ne'er convince,
But nature to her bias drew in that.
'Tis now but four o'clock: we have two hours
It fell upon a little western flower,
Swore him assistance and perform'd it too.
The sense of death is most in apprehension;
Leaving their earthly parts to choke your clime,
Enter DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
Normans, but bastard Normans, Norman bastards!
Sweet lord, you play me false.
I humbly thank your ladyship.
Exit
rather to have my hat than my heart, I will practise
Smile heaven upon this fair conjunction,
I should woo hard but be your groom. In honesty,
A fever in your blood! why, then incision
Now, Mars, I prithee, make us quick in work,
No; I will to Ireland to his majesty.
And many of the consuls, raised and met,
My countryman; but yet I know him not.
Not of a woman's tenderness to be,
Which thou owedst yesterday.
He will awake my mercy which lies dead:
What, hath your grace no better company?
Argo, their thread of life is spun.
How now, Grumio!
Would make a volume of enticing lines,
I beg cold comfort; and you are so strait
Falls on ROMEO's body, and dies
Ay, why not? Grace is grace, despite of all
Or russet-pated choughs, many in sort,
invincible spirit: but it shall be convenient,
Now, pray thee, come;
I grant; as there may between the lists and the
Heaven and thy thoughts are witness that thou art.
What black magician conjures up this fiend,
They shouted thrice: what was the last cry for?
Retires and kneels
very uncleanly flux of a cat. Mend the instance, shepherd.
Upon the error that you heard debated:
For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
Some, how brief the life of man
We licence your departure with your son.
Hang upon his pent-house lid;
chance to fail, he hath sentenced himself.
Whose hand is that the forest bear doth lick?
Capitulate against us and are up.
Of Roman gentlemen, by the senate sent.
I have, my liege.
far, would have made nature immortal, and death
Do you perceive in all this noble company
Firm and irrevocable is my doom
For that's an article within our law,
How do you? how do you?
Discredit more in hiding of the fault
Exeunt
By such poor passion as the maid that milks
Which of you, if you were a prince's son,
I thank him, I bare home upon my shoulders;
Full merrily
Must be the scene of mirth; to cough and spit,
As 'twere in love's particular, be more
Bury with those that wore them, these base slaves,
Rid all the sea of pirates; then, to send
Nothing, my lord.
But shall we make the welkin dance indeed? shall we
For Imogen's dear life take mine; and though
gentleman, Lord Lucullus, entreats your company
Steps aside
Come, let us go. These things, come thus to light,
And these few precepts in thy memory
And, her attendants absent, swallow'd fire.
Have with you. You'll come to dinner, George.
Whereof ungrateful man, with liquorish draughts
Enter AUSTRIA and forces, drums, etc. on one side:  on the other KING PHILIP and his power; LEWIS, ARTHUR, CONSTANCE and attendants
powers of the kingdom approach apace.
Between the constant red and mingled damask.
Should be 'Remember mine.'
This discord's ground, the music would not please.
early: so that to go to bed after midnight is to go
'Ask me no reason why I love you; for though
And fortify it strongly 'gainst the French:
board 'em. Servant-monster, drink to me.
'Couple a gorge!'
SCENE I. Before PROSPERO'S Cell.
Until the goose came out of door,
Exit
With truth and plainness I do wear mine bare.
Remain in't as thou mayst.
Salisbury is a desperate homicide;
What ribs of oak, when mountains melt on them,
'Tis true indeed; the collusion holds in the exchange.
Now sways it this way, like a mighty sea
Come, go with me; peruse this as thou goest:
digested in the scenes, set down with as much
mots que vous m'avez appris des a present.
In thy condign praise.
Your brother's death, I know, sits at your heart;
the skirts of it, and beat me to death with a bottom
What colour, madam! how shall I answer you?
Enter TULLUS AUFIDIUS and certain Senators
His neck will come to your waist,--a cord, sir.
You must not marvel, Helen, at my course,
To sit and witch me, as Ascanius did
Pray you, lock hand in hand; yourselves in order set
Yet Edward at the least is Duke of York.
Away, Patroclus!
Sweet madam.
Thy honour, state and seat is due to me.
And then pursue me as you draw your bow.
For I'll not kill thee there, nor there, nor there;
A grumbling groom, and that the girl shall find.
But now my heavy conscience sinks my knee,
Are worse than devils.
To understand my purposes aright:
Where there is beauty; truth, where semblance; love,
Enter CADE
And hold her free, I do beseech your honour.
I'll never trouble you, if I may spy them.
Re-enter HELICANUS, LYSIMACHUS, and MARINA
Potations pottle-deep; and he's to watch:
That which long process could not arbitrate:
I have kept it myself; and see how he goes about to abuse me!
Whilst emulation in the army crept:
He is drowned in the brook: look but in, and you
The tomb is opened
Blood hath bought blood and blows have answered blows;
Hail, madam, and my queen!
were so simple, none else would: but you are so
I'll give my jewels for a set of beads,
And if on earth he do not mean it, then
Yes, you are.
But this eternal blazon must not be
Ah, villain, thou wilt betray me, and get a thousand
Yet freshly pitied in our memories.
The victory fell on us.
Enter OTHELLO and Attendants
SCENE I. Britain. Before Cymbeline's palace.
See't shalt thou never. Fellows, hold the chair.
O, I cry you mercy; you are the singer: I will say
From women's eyes this doctrine I derive;  They are the ground, the books, the academes From whence doth spring the true Promethean fire
No, not take interest, not, as you would say,
With lies well steel'd with weighty arguments;
Of all the learned and authentic fellows,--
A vengeance on your crafty wither'd hide!
Is partly to behold my lady's face;
cast thy humble slough and appear fresh. Be
To taunt at slackness. Canidius, we
Whose wisdom was a mirror to the wisest;
impossible places. Though what I am I cannot avoid,
Forgets the shows of love to other men.
When I am sure you hate me with your hearts.
She hath betray'd me and shall die the death.
Quite from himself to God. But now behold,
But I am weaker than a woman's tear,
Is dead.
Until four hundred one and twenty years
for there be of them that will themselves laugh, to
He is married?
Why, 'tis the rarest argument of wonder that hath
Have you heard of no likely wars toward, 'twixt the
Shall be my recreation: so long as nature
Enter the Mayor of Saint Alban's and his  brethren, bearing SIMPCOX, between two in a chair, SIMPCOX's Wife following
Fann'd with the eastern wind, turns to a crow
infect my brain, being the herdsmen of the beastly
Let nobody blame him; his scorn I approve,-
'My lady is unkind, perdy.'
And Charles, upon condition thou wilt swear
'Tis fond to wail inevitable strokes,
gipsies on a horse.
It is offended.
they are the abstract and brief chronicles of the
By the world,
[Picking his pocket]
Whom, you may say, if't please you, Fleance kill'd,
Who hadst deserved more than a prison.
It is great morning, and the hour prefix'd
large cicatrices to show the people, when he shall
Exeunt Portia and Nerissa
behavior of the country is most mockable at the
Say we intend to try his grace to-day.
Only for them; and mine eternal jewel
Third Serving-man	My lord, we know your grace to be a man
Unarm, Eros; the long day's task is done,
I am to blame.
Of warlike Lucius, and appoint the meeting
Who then recover: say thou art mine, and ever
thine ear: change places; and, handy-dandy, which
Are ye fantastical, or that indeed
Is coming towards me, and my inward soul
Unto my father and my uncle Marcus,
It shall become to serve all hopes conceived,
That I wish well. 'Tis pity--
Seek him out, and play the tune the while.
Here, my lord.
To pity too.
All my fond love thus do I blow to heaven.
So vile a thing as Caesar! But, O grief,
glad thou canst speak no better English; for, if
It must be your imagination then, and not theirs.
woes also: and yet there is a virtuous man whom I
Winds his horn. Drums strike up: a peal of ordnance. Enter soldiers
I have fought with thee: so often hast thou beat me,
Canst thou hold up thy heavy eyes awhile,
That was he
So to him we leave it.
Than my Lord Hastings no man might be bolder;
Define, define, well-educated infant.
If I did stay to look on his intents.
If this, or more than this, I would deny,
To be your comforter when he is gone.
Sir,
abhors, and cross-gartered, a fashion she detests;
I will confess she was not Edward's daughter.
To cry to the sea that roar'd to us, to sigh
By reason of his absence, there is nothing
Your safety manifested.
Why look you still so stern and tragical?
You do the nobler.
The gaoler to his pity. I kneel'd before him;
He might have chid me so; for, in good faith,
Try all the friends thou hast in Ephesus;
And may that thought, when I imagine ill
My lord, you have my voice to it; the fault's
Look here upon thy brother Geffrey's face;
this gross watery pumpion; we'll teach him to know
a vile phrase: but you shall hear. Thus:
This shall determine that.
Towards York shall bend you with your dearest speed,
But creep in crannies when he hides his beams.
If thou and nature can so gently part,
I ask'd his blessing, and from first to last
You may say it, but not swear it.
That comes to hazard for my worthless self.
Heaven, from thy endless goodness, send prosperous
Concur together, severally entreat him.
Am I in earth, in heaven, or in hell?
With those clear rays which she infused on me
If you repay me not on such a day,
But you have power in me as in a kinsman.
Fresh kings are come to Troy: to-morrow
But where is he?
To plead mine innocence; for that dye is on me
So sick I am not, yet I am not well;
Blows dust in other's eyes, to spread itself;
My lord? my lord?
Why, sir, give the gods a thankful sacrifice. When
Toward Calais: grant him there; there seen,
Exeunt
That calumny doth use--O, I am out--
What say you now? what comfort have we now?
With your stiff age: but unto us it is
to this foolery, as it appears he hath, he is no
As if she sat in 's heart; she says all men
perchance of the duke's death; perchance entering
But like a comet I was wonder'd at;
For such a sight will blind a father's eye:
Exeunt
Ruled, like a wandering planet, over me,
hurt home to-day? he's not hurt: why, this will do
I humbly pray them to admit the excuse
Although particular, shall give a scantling
Exit
Ay, mine own fortune in my misery.
Than this pure soul shall be: all princely graces,
Yet,--
Soft you; a word or two before you go.
Fool goes in
Leave us to ourselves; and make yourself some comfort
Gentle lover, remedy.
Your servant, and Costard.
Right glad I am he was not at this fray.
In the delaying death.
breaking out.
Master Shallow, you have yourself been a great
To match thy goodness? My life will be too short,
Lords, give us leave: I'll try this widow's wit.
marriage-hour,
I will be correspondent to command
Makes us traduced and tax'd of other nations:
To push destruction and perpetual shame
after! come, 'tis a foolish saying.
Hath Doreus prisoner,
Be ready, as your lives shall answer it,
Something's afore't. Soft, soft! we'll no defence;
Though with their high wrongs I am struck to the quick,
Presents well worthy Rome's imperial lord:
Shall lay your stately and air-braving towers,
With nimble soles: I have a soul of lead
And look on death itself! up, up, and see
And his own courses will denote him so
Hear me with patience.
after three-pence a bay: if you live to see this
Wither one rose, and let the other flourish;
Wink at the Duke of Suffolk's insolence,
Still met the king? loved him next heaven?
Or climb my palace, till from forth this place
I'll lay my life, with my disposer Cressida.
What we took from them; which, for traffic's sake,
To help our fielded friends! Come, blow thy blast.
Hooting and shrieking. When these prodigies
way of thy excuse: my lady will hang thee for thy absence.
Thou mightst deserve, or they impose, this usage,
Too indirect for long continuance.
Wherefore is this?
Loves me as dear as e'er my mother did,
Why, that was he.
Of which I do accuse myself so sorely,
Let us be worried and our nation lose
And dare not take up arms like gentlemen.
Or thou goest to the orange or mill.
Well, now.
Marry, that did I.
Oxford, how haps it, in this smooth discourse,
If there be faith in men, meant for his trial,
Cannot impugn you as you do proceed.
so long am I at the least. But wilt thou make a
And not as our confusion, all thy powers
he would not have spoke such a word.
Let's do't, I pray; and I this morning know
Our kinsman Gloucester is as innocent
That have inflamed desire in my breast
So dear in heart, not to deny her that
Till we meet Warwick with his foreign power.
Which none but heaven and you and I shall hear.
His champions are the prophets and apostles,
when you put off that with such contempt? But to the court!
And that the Lord of Westmoreland shall maintain.
Or any taint of vice whose strong corruption
Peaseblossom.
To quarrel with your great opposeless wills,
That turn'd your wit the seamy side without,
To seek out sorrow that dwells every where.
And I, to sound the depth of this knavery.
Peruse this writing here, and thou shalt know
Who told me how the poor soul did forsake
But when he saw my best alarum'd spirits,
Thisbe runs off
Rosalind: so adieu.
You have for dignities; to the mere undoing
Where is but a humour or a worm.
The troop is past. Come, pilgrim, I will bring you
Till with thy warlike sword, despite of late,
Erroneous vassal! the great King of kings
to swim in. Now a little fire in a wild field were
To use one language in each several clime
Enter a Messenger
The citizens of Corioli have issued,
Is my lord angry?
So desperate thieves, all hopeless of their lives,
To weed my vice and let his grow!
Far be it we should honour such as these
crown. I know no ways to mince it in love, but
The plot is laid: if all things fall out right,
I may command at most. Get weapons, ho!
Shall I Sir Pandarus of Troy become,
Of my boy's face, methoughts I did recoil
I have convey'd aboard; and I have bought
Dared once to touch a dust of England's ground?
the breach of hers. Let thine own hands take away
Enter BALTHASAR, booted
Go to, then.
And ban thine enemies, both mine and thine!
in the meat, and we will come in to dinner.
I do; and charge you in the duke's name to obey me.
By that and all the rites of knighthood else,
Exeunt
Exeunt
Don Pedro is approached.
Let me pass quietly:
A mote will turn the balance, which Pyramus, which
God in heaven bless her!
That appertain to you? Am I yourself
too.
They did so, to the amazement of mine eyes
And by good fortune I have lighted well
The reasons you allege do more conduce
In my oration, how the people take
A Trojan hath been slain: since she could speak,
Let all the ends thou aim'st at be thy country's,
Whom I will trust as I will adders fang'd,
Consider you what services he has done for his country?
Where?
That ever lay by man: which when the people
fasting-days, and moreo'er puddings and flap-jacks,
'Tis the infirmity of his age: yet he hath ever
The jewels of our father, with wash'd eyes
From whom I have received not only greetings,
pray you, why is it?
A woman I forswore; but I will prove,
Good mother, do not marry me to yond fool.
and require her to solicit your master's desires to
were cast away before us even now.
MARINA sings
Here, my lord.
Thou shouldst come like a Fury crown'd with snakes,
I ne'er might say before. When I came back--
kill him whom you have recovered, desire it not.
Overdone's own house, for here be many of her old
your servant.
Is to make midnight mushrooms, that rejoice
Is thy master stirring?
I thought the king had more affected the Duke of
but yet no coward, Hal.
there was but one way; for his nose was as sharp as
If you will see her: now, by my faith and honour,
Almost at point to enter.
Till time beget some careful remedy.
If I know how or which way to order these affairs
Where the warlike Smalus,
You have said now.
Mine heir from forth the beggars of the world,
Nor I from Troy come not to whisper him:
Youth so apt to pluck a sweet!
That is my bed too, lads, an there I'll lie:
She Phebes me: mark how the tyrant writes.
Rich stuffs, and ornaments of household; which
his lover; as a puisny tilter, that spurs his horse
Both in your form and nobleness of mind;
She hangs about his neck:
Enter BIONDELLO
Best to preserve it: if I lose mine honour,
Dies
And gentlemen of Italy, most willing spirits,
Gone, sir: farewell.
Now, nurse, what news? What hast thou there? the cords
With conscience wide as hell, mowing like grass
Set on there! Never was a war did cease,
SCENE I. A room in the prison.
beast! O strange! Every inordinate cup is
Ay, marry, is't:
of my father's will. I am glad this parcel of wooers
What harmony is this? My good friends, hark!
Have at thee, coward!
Indeed, sir, she was the sweet marjoram of the
And of how coward a spirit.
Of those that served Mark Antony but late,
As man's ingratitude;
Being so far provoked as I was in France, I would
Seeks to take off by treason's knife.
I will fetch off my bottle, though I be o'er ears
Be playfellows to keep you company!
Will you bestow them friendly on Andronicus?
Is once to be resolved: exchange me for a goat,
Fairies, begone, and be all ways away.
Our ears are cudgell'd; not a word of his
Bolts and shackles!
That lack'd sight only, nought for approbation
I would I were invisible, to catch the strong
In me at once: but to the brightest beams
They know not how their wits to wear,
Who dares not stir by day must walk by night,
Marry, he told me so himself; and he said he cared
Lord Cerimon, my lord; this man,
Enter HELENA
If I can get him within my pistol's length,
SCENE II. Another part of the island.
With whom each minute threatens life or death.
Thoughts of great value, worthy cogitations.
teeth and tear it; O, I warrant it, how he mammocked
Well, if Percy be alive, I'll pierce him. If he do
offence, honesty! 'Tis strange.
And being seated, and domestic broils
it wants matter to prevent so gross o'erreaching as
And perfected by the swift course of time.
SCENE IV. Before the palace.
Dromio, what stuff of mine hast thou embark'd?
Why you are heavy, and what men to-night
Our ears vouchsafe it.
O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.
Welcome father.
The fashion, less without and more within.
in thy scarf and beaten, thou shalt find what it is
Home art gone, and ta'en thy wages:
And his great person perish.
I am not such a truant since my coming,
Enter LUCENTIO and his man TRANIO
sworn not to give regard to you. Farewell; and come
That cause, fair nephew, that imprison'd me
married under a bush like a beggar? Get you to
you must call forth the watch that are their accusers.
courteous, and a kind, and a handsome, and, I
As sure I think did never man love so--
Didst thou not say, when I did push thee back--
Enter CORNWALL, REGAN, GLOUCESTER, and Servants
Maud, Bridget, Marian, Cicel, Gillian, Ginn!
It is not worth leave-taking.
Treachery! Seek it out.
Well, God give them wisdom that have it; and those
Methinks I am a prophet new inspired
If it would please him come and marry her!'
This, Casca; this, Cinna; and this, Metellus Cimber.
That were you, Antony, the son of Caesar,
Is in the very May-morn of his youth,
And yet it is not that I bear thee love;
And here ye lie baiting of bombards, when
As if I did but only chew his name;
O, let the vile world end,
thus strong,
May now perchance both quake and tremble here,
commandment: if not, your pardon and my return
traitor, let him appear by the third sound of the
I will die bravely, like a bridegroom. What!
Shall make their way seem short, as mine hath done
And make him of like spirit to himself.
And when they bear me say 'It shall be so
Master Fenton:' this is my doing.
As the remembrance of an idle gaud
Within my age. But reason with the fellow,
O' the rolls, and the king's secretary; further, sir,
I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person in trial.
All three of you, to be thus much o'ershot?
Filling the aged wrinkles in my cheeks;
A weak bond holds you: I'll not trust your word.
My tables,--meet it is I set it down,
Well, my legitimate, if this letter speed,
Of that unsatiate Edward, noble York
And at my lovely Tamora's entreats,
What's the quarrel?
What you would have reform'd that is not well,
Are you a god? would you create me new?
How many be commanded that command!
Is Lewis so brave? belike he thinks me Henry.
O heavens themselves!
Now get thee hence: the king, thou know'st, is coming;
Arm, fight, and conquer, for fair England's sake!
The day shall not be up so soon as I,
Of here and every where. I had a sister,
And what ensues in this fell storm
Of human dealings. If I do prove her haggard,
Now, good my lord,
carbonado your shanks: draw, you rascal; come your ways.
And very rich: but thou'rt too much my friend,
And even before this truce, but new before,
With one 'We thank you' many thousands moe
And that in Tarsus was not best
That is, to live and study here three years.
Of commendations sent from Valentine,
Is creeping toward me; how far off, how near;
Exit
transgresses is but patched with sin; and sin that
For then I'll marry Warwick's youngest daughter.
Which writ his honour in the acts it did,
One Ragozine, a most notorious pirate,
The element they lived in: in his livery
To think so base a thought: it were too gross
Grow great by your example and put on
Are all call'd neat.--Still virginalling
Malicious practises against his state:
Of Nature's gifts thou mayst with lilies boast,
Go bear this lance to Thomas, Duke of Norfolk.
it anon with new contents swear.
Even with such life of majesty, warm life,
That droops his sapless branches to the ground;
His knights grow riotous, and himself upbraids us
Come, fellow, follow us for thy reward.
Night hangs upon mine eyes; my bones would rest,
That for thyself: I will not so presume
Wisely and slow; they stumble that run fast.
tinkers at this time of night? Do ye make an
I have more cause to hate him than to love him:
every morning.
rotten apples! You may as well say, that's a
Exeunt Cupid and Ladies
Or that we women had men's privilege
Madam, if you could find out but a man
Whom angry heavens do make their minister
Who hath abused me, as he knows himself,
prince; no, fie!
You look as you had something more to say.
off.
Your majestee ave fausse French enough to deceive de
Exit
And pours down mischief. Austria's head lie there,
Is not your name, sir, call'd Antipholus?
Shall quips and sentences and these paper bullets of
Where is thy lustre now?
Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.
With all my imperfections on my head:
ANTIPHOLUS
Here 'tis; commends it to your blessing.
ensemble: de hand, de fingres, de nails, de arm, de
The king, of his own royal disposition,
And then I know after who comes by the worst.
And talk'd apace; and in that hour, my lord,
your mistress; be moved, be moved.
Recount, I do beseech thee: come, sit by me.
Merely upon myself. Vexed I am
Whiles thy consuming canker eats his falsehood.
I will drain him dry as hay:
Well, I will forget the condition of my estate, to
That envied his receipt; even so most fitly
Took odds to combat a poor famish'd man.
And so unworthily disgrace the man,
would call abbominable: it insinuateth me of
How! my good name? or to report of you
And frame my face to all occasions.
The ancient proverb will be well effected:
Our worser thoughts heavens mend! Alexas,--come,
How couldst thou in a mile confound an hour,
Pardon me, noble lord:
And handed love as you do, I was wont
least, he fought with; what wards, what blows, what
Enter BIONDELLO
Why, thy verse swells with stuff so fine and smooth
And set a double varnish on the fame
The pleasing punishment that women bear,
An you should do it too terribly, you would fright
Alas, poor shepherd!
The walls they'll tear down than forsake the siege.
Sergeant, you shall.
And case thy reputation in thy tent;
To call a present court of parliament.
Come, lady, come; you have lost the heart of
Not so allured to feed.
For the love o' God, peace!
Exeunt
That, by and by, disguised they will be here.
Your part in her you could not keep from death,
Who wrought it with the king, and who perform'd
we'll be all three sworn brothers to France: let it
Against the irregular and wild Glendower,
Take you me for a sponge, my lord?
That we can let our beard be shook with danger
Cassio!
says, you are no good member of the commonwealth,
But like a foul mis-shapen stigmatic,
Lies rich in virtue and unmingled.
Yet let me weep for such a feeling loss.
Who is the second that presents himself?
knowest me! Is it two days ago since I tripped up
And whispers to his pillow, as to him,
To hide me from the radiant sun and solace
Such as she says my lord did say I was.
To their subsequent volumes, there is seen
My lord of Gloucester hath convey'd him hence:
bell-wether; next, to be compassed, like a good
I will not bed her.
and delight to live in slavery to the nobility. Let
enough, if we know we are the kings subjects: if
was born to do me good: for many a time, but for a
We are descried; they'll mock us now downright.
whole realms on fire: Of such a nature is his
straight: the crowner hath sat on her, and finds it
Do a fair message to his kingly ears?
Consumptions sow
He to be earl marshal: you may read the rest.
I up my apes, and away to Saint Peter for the
That Cleon's wife, with envy rare,
So by my former lecture and advice,
Swearing allegiance and the love of soul
What, old acquaintance! could not all this flesh
Come on, sir knave, have done your foolishness,
Too cruel any where.
Most like a gentleman.
Therefore, for fear of the worst, I pray thee, set a
If I do find him fit, I'll move your suit
They do consume the thing that feeds their fury:
He would himself have been a soldier.
Leaps into the grave
Are bound to pray for you both.
To change blows with thee for our day of doom.
with a piece of your performance. Nell, he is full
Who didst thou leave to tend his majesty?
sworn brother, a very simple gentleman! I have sold
Your hand, Salerio: what's the news from Venice?
Enter GOWER, before the temple of DIANA at Ephesus
Make me not sighted like the basilisk:
Re-enter MACDUFF
This act is as an ancient tale new told,
Come on, come on; where is your boar-spear, man?
To pray for her? what, is she crying out?
him, his umbrage, nothing more.
Alas poor York! but that I hate thee deadly,
if something thou wilt swear to be believed,
And live upon the vapour of a dungeon,
Who seem'd my good protector; and, being here,
O, that his fault should make a knave of thee,
I could do this, and that with no rash potion,
her I will execute in the clothes that she so
By my troth, 's not so good; and I warrant your
it.
I kiss these fingers for eternal peace,
The former agents, if they did complain,
Enter SIR NATHANIEL, for Alexander
Fights dragon-like, and does achieve as soon
Stay! speak, speak! I charge thee, speak!
And yet methinks your grace hath not done well,
What means the fool, trow?
I cry you mercy, then:
To weep at what I am glad of.
As it is like him--might break out, and swear
But let us give him burial, as becomes;
Come, thou gentle day!
I can interpret all her martyr'd signs;
Till honour be bought up and no sword worn
Christendom. If thou hadst been born blind, thou
A pestilence on him for a mad rogue! a' poured a
sup a flea.
you kiss your hands: that courtesy would be
Sirrah, I say, forbear. Friend Valentine, a word.
Let us be sacrificers, but not butchers, Caius.
Methought it did relieve my passion much,
Dear master, I can go no further. O, I die for food!
O, my good lord, I have been your tenant, and
thine:' which word thou shalt no sooner bless mine
Much deserved on his part and equally remembered by
In some of our best ports, and are at point
You spy! what do you spy? Come, give me an
I dare abide no longer.
Unto these sorrows.
and I will tell you my drift.
It were good that Benedick knew of it by some
I had rather break mine own. Good my lord, enter.
She that accuses him of fornication,
O, give me leave, I have deluded you:
The day almost itself professes yours,
The armourers, accomplishing the knights,
How fares my lord? Help, lords! the king is dead.
I'll take the better care, but if you will not,
Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds,
Why let it strike?
Knocking within
To that which had too much:' then, being there alone,
We will so: almost all
To take in many towns ere almost Rome
Your trusty and most valiant servitor,
blame me to piss my tallow? Who comes here? my
Why we ascribe it to him; yet all his virtues,
be both at once delivered.
Secure from worldly chances and mishaps!
And stay your coming to present themselves.
Turn on the bloody hounds with heads of steel
I'll wear the willow garland for his sake.
ACT III
But it must grieve young Pyrrhus now at home,
I do forgive thee.
Pray you, be round with him.
Even here, between the chaste unsmirched brow
Now, God incense him,
Beating him
Have done thy charm, thou hateful wither'd hag!
And gave him graceful posture.
Shines o'er with civil swords: Sextus Pompeius
My ventures are not in one bottom trusted,
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH and SIR ANDREW
His going I could frame to serve my turn,
Kill men i' the dark!--Where be these bloody thieves?--
Till the fresh taste be taken from that clearness,
of languages, and stolen the scraps.
When think you that the sword goes up again?
I, sir? I never saw her till this time.
To whom I do appeal; and in whose name
That stir the king against the duke my brother.
That e'er I heard: shall I produce the men?
I'll to the Tower with all the haste I can,
Your husband so much sweat. Cominius,
As thou art to thyself:
when I give the watch-'ords, do as I pid you:
We know your drift: speak what?
My intercession likewise steads my foe.
combinate husband, this well-seeming Angelo.
leave him, and suddenly contrive the means of
Enter LYSANDER, DEMETRIUS, HERMIA, and HELENA
[Within]  Francis!
You are assembled: and my speech entreats
But throw her forth to beasts and birds of prey:
I confess two sleeves.
And make him with fair AEgle break his faith,
May prove effects. Back, Edmund, to my brother;
You have not dared to break the holy seal
the Jew and Antonio the merchant: we turned o'er
The day, my friends and all things stay for me.
Where thou shalt live, till we can find a time
let thy tongue tang with arguments of state; put
Hang 'em, slaves! I do not think the knight would
Good even, good Master What-ye-call't: how do you,
SONG.
A Daniel, still say I, a second Daniel!
Faster than spring-time showers comes thought
Swear by my sword.
Lost by his father, with all bonds of law,
But as a thing of custom: 'tis no other;
But learn my lessons as I please myself.
Pity was all the fault that was in me;
She that could think and ne'er disclose her mind,
The beauty of her person to the people.
We are to cure such sorrows, not to sow 'em.
That your estate requires and mine can yield.
But tell me then, 'tis so; for, look thy cheeks
Thus to have said,
These may be counterfeits: let's think't unsafe
Re-enter BOYET
And, Henry, hadst thou sway'd as kings should do,
Ay, that.
conclusion is victory: on whose side? the king's.
Their nicely-gawded cheeks to the wanton spoil
To young Octavius of the state of things.
I give my daughter to him, and will make
as good go a mile on his errand.
Behind the globe, that lights the lower world,
Is Lucius general of the forces?
If Lucius live, he will requite your wrongs;
No higher than thyself; the judge's clerk,
well, go to--there were no more comparison between
And to be doubted that your Moor and you
Unworthy though thou art, I'll cope with thee
bite my thumb, sir.
My master, Sir John, is come in at your back-door,
Ay, sir, from one Monsieur Biron, one of the strange
To sue his livery and beg his peace,
This field-bed is too cold for me to sleep:
philosophical persons, to make modern and familiar,
Say thou wilt walk; we will bestrew the ground:
Enter FORTINBRAS, a Captain, and Soldiers, marching
I wonder, doctor,
his first approach before my lady: he will come to
Unto the brother of your loving bride;
Boult, has she any qualities?
And stand a comma 'tween their amities,
Good morrow, neighbour Gremio.
Kneeling
The purchase made, the fruits are to ensue;
On the nice hazard of one doubtful hour?
Why?
Behoves me keep at utterance. I am perfect
Ruffian, let go that rude uncivil touch,
What my tongue speaks my right drawn sword may prove.
Beg that thou mayst have leave to hang thyself:
Were purchased by the merit of the wearer!
received a letter this night; 'tis dangerous to be
Yet are they passing cowardly. But, I beseech you,
ANTIPHOLUS
I do defy thy conjurations,
It will make you melancholy, Monsieur Jaques.
To look that way thou wert.
O, will you eat no grapes, my royal fox?
Which I have heavily borne, there ran a rumour
Thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a vice to
And I should be obscured.
against it; for man is a giddy thing, and this is my
Stain'd with the guiltless blood of innocents,
They tell thee true.
darkling stand
It's nine o'clock.
And, as you said, and wisely was it said,
Chief factors for the gods, I do not know
carpet consideration; but he is a devil in private
Mark Antony shall say I am not well,
For being preferred so well.
Take thou this note;
The thwartings of your dispositions, if
To see her in your arms.
Direct mine arms I may embrace his neck,
I quote it in your jerkin.
But dawning day new comfort hath inspired.
But I am constant as the northern star,
Peer'd forth the golden window of the east,
encounter Tybalt?
His serious considering.
And wholesome berries thrive and ripen best
Do but mistake.
How much her grace is alter'd on the sudden?
This fair alliance quickly shall call home
Unable to support this lump of clay,
poor gentlewoman: there she lost a noble and
Of hostile arms! myself myself confound!
Canst thou bring me to the party?
Crying 'Long live! hail, Caesar!'
Which to the tune of flutes kept stroke, and made
as truly as a man of falsehood may.
hear me speak but this.
I leave him to your hand. What muffled fellow's that?
I tell thee, Jack Cade the clothier means to dress
God's peace! I would not lose so great an honour
This deed I'll do before this purpose cool.
Thou dost beguile me! Was this face the face
praised for my jealousy! Eleven o'clock the hour.
Upon the foot of fear, fled with the rest;
Pardon the frankness of my mirth, if I answer you
Intended or committed was this fault?
You shall not only take the sacrament
Enter the Boy
Will't please your honour taste of these conserves?
slight and trivial a nature.
Lavinia, live; outlive thy father's days,
Lord, who would live turmoiled in the court,
Of malady of France;
Should have him thus restrain'd.
Get me a taper in my study, Lucius:
Into our presence, where this heaven of beauty
Grief would have tears, and sorrow bids me speak.
Well, my good lord, I'll do't.
That makes the senate ugly.
How now, how now, mad wag! what, in thy quips and
You may.
Hear you. my lords,--
Your gates against my force. Yet, for I loved thee,
Sound, trumpet!
Peace and content be here! Lord Timon! Timon!
Yet not so wealthy as an English yeoman.
Lord Alexas, sweet Alexas, most any thing Alexas,
Twice saying 'pardon' doth not pardon twain,
And throw't against the wind. To the market-place!
SCENE II. A field between the two camps.
And, that thou mayst perceive my fear of this,
To thread the postern of a small needle's eye.'
Were factious for the house of Lancaster;
He wears his honour in a box unseen,
Upon your will to suffer.
Nay, I would have you go before me thither.
Enter the Ghosts of the two young Princes
That's our offer.
beat not the bones of the buried: when he breathed,
And here's another, whose warp'd looks proclaim
A softly-sprighted man, is he not?
For me, that I may surely keep mine oath,
So 'tis: this comes off well and excellent.
Marry, I will, let them play it. Is not a
Yet do not suddenly, for it may grieve him.
Boy!
If she cannot entreat, I can compel.
written in eight and six.
Proclaim my brother Edmund Mortimer
well-behaved reproof to all uncomeliness, that I
A torch for me: let wantons light of heart
She gave me none, except an angry word.
Most reverend Nestor, I am glad to clasp thee.
Shall I try friends: you shall perceive how you
Madam, as thereto sworn by your command,
Expound unto me, boy.
Your brother's son shall never reign our king;
To your obedience fifty fortresses,
I think, but dare not speak.
we shall drink down all unkindness.
Or as a moat defensive to a house,
Exit
So aged as this seems.
Lest they should spy my windpipe's dangerous notes:
Nor from mine own weak merits will I draw
Or stones whose rates are either rich or poor
I doubt not but this populous city will
[Aside]  How! the king gone!
To make the sceptre his: these very words
Than gilt his trophy: the breasts of Hecuba,
Shall see advantageable for our dignity,
Have you not set mine honour at the stake
Now, afore God, I am so vexed, that every part about
caper; ha! higher: ha, ha! excellent!
But were our witty empress well afoot,
He'll stop the course by which it might be known;
I shall have such a life!
Did quarrel with the noblest grace she owed
conscience. The poor Transylvanian is dead, that
Exeunt BASSIANUS and MARCUS with LAVINIA
Dare bite the best. I do beseech your lordships,
Would not this ill do well? Well, well, I see
One that hath ever been God's enemy:
Yea, his dread trident shake.
Conceal them, or thou diest.
I wonder of their being here together.
I had rather be a kitten and cry mew
To voice him consul: lay the fault on us.
My lord, from head to foot.
In a most curious mantle, wrought by the hand
Let us not hang like roping icicles
Are at our backs; and therefore hence amain.
And therein you are senseless.
And go with you.
Nor wear the diadem upon his head,
This shameful lodging.
A maid, they say.
Heaven prosper the right! What weapons is he?
If fires be hot, knives sharp, or waters deep,
Nay, certainly, I have heard the Ptolemies'
Art thou afeard?
Thou art more deep damn'd than Prince Lucifer:
Not see him since? Sir, sir, that cannot be:
Me too, let me go thither.
Knocking
A child that guided dotards; to his mistress,
Than plural faith which is too much by one:
Are mock'd for valiant ignorance,
Who, dipping all his faults in their affection,
he's but a filthy piece of work.
speak no more. Away with those giglots too, and
Embark his royalty; and his brave fleet
Support him by the arm. Give me your hand,
Here, Winchester, I offer thee my hand.
The incensing relics of it: let him approach,
An o'er-press'd Roman and i' the consul's view
Good lords, conduct him to his regiment:
But soft, I pray you; did King Richard then
How now! what's the matter?
No; Publius and Sempronius, you must do it;
I warrant. What, Robin, I say!
The masters of some merchant and the merchant
Now, as thou art a gentleman of blood,
Enter ADRIANA and LUCIANA
As any cordial comfort. Still, methinks,
Ha! not for the wide world.
And pray that I may repossess the crown.
With sweetest touches pierce your mistress' ear,
He had a fever when he was in Spain,
Who after Edward the Third's death reign'd as king;
I have some business.
And these are of them. Whither are they vanish'd?
When Helen is defended, nor none so noble
To blench from this and to stand firm by honour:
And almost broke my heart with extreme laughter:
Matter against him that for ever mars
Here's Romeo's man; we found him in the churchyard.
To have them recompensed as thought on.
Enter Cupid
And therefore are we certainly resolved
They could not, would not do 't; 'tis worse than murder,
What, what?
Fame, at the which he aims,
Enter CALPURNIA
And with my child my joys are buried.
He shall here find his friends with horse and men
And Titus Lartius, a most valiant Roman,
I would it would be quiet.
O my poor Rosalind, whither wilt thou go?
Exeunt
O, name him not: let us not break with him;
Adieu, good master doctor.
But yet an union in partition;
With oily painting. Shall I draw the curtain?
Let's write good angel on the devil's horn:
A knight of Sparta, my renowned father;
Takes from Aufidius a great part of blame.
I found it not.
And 'twas time for him too, I'll warrant him that:
With due observance of thy godlike seat,
variance. Antony will use his affection where it is:
thyme, supply it with one gender of herbs, or
Come, sir, I will not let you go. Come, my young
'Faith, he is posted hence on serious matter.
request in my stead. I beseech you, let his lack of
'Bove the contentious waves he kept, and oar'd
Be quite degraded, like a hedge-born swain
Duke of Alencon, this was your default,
I pray you, let us see you in the field:
think your mystery in stratagem can bring this
When my poor heart no measure keeps in grief:
SCENE I. The heath.
I know it well, Lord Warwick; blame me not:
That good effects may spring from words of love.
I, not remembering how I cried out then,
And on my head did set the diadem.
Rescue, my Lord of Norfolk, rescue, rescue!
A mad-cup ruffian and a swearing Jack,
And bid my friend, for joy of this good news,
What you bestow, in him I'll counterpoise,
should be hanged, I cannot imagine.
O, that I had her here, to tear her limb-meal!
Losses their remedies. All weary and o'erwatch'd,
By strangling thee in her accursed womb
A Florentine more kind and honest.
That very envy and the tongue of loss
One kiss shall stop our mouths, and dumbly part;
Having bought love with such a bloody spoil.
Gentles, do not reprehend:
Borachio.
Would he not stumble? would he not fall down,
Comes dear'd by being lack'd. This common body,
Why dost thou look so sadly on my son?
Our written purposes before us sent;
Bootless is flight, they follow us with wings;
Which had you rather, that the most just law
Hath your grace ne'er a brother like you? Your
Here could I breathe my soul into the air,
By so much is the wonder in extremes.
To one consent, may work contrariously:
My lord, we will not.
Tush, tush!
When vantage like a pair of twins appear'd,
A toy, my liege, a toy: your grace needs not fear it.
What two reverend bishops
The mirth whereof so larded with my matter,
Rosaline.' I will look again on the intellect of
'Tis pity of him.
Drum. Enter BRUTUS, LUCILIUS, LUCIUS, and Soldiers; TITINIUS and PINDARUS meeting them
By this discovery lost. Be not uncertain;
Nor fear of bad success in a bad cause,
And talk to you sometimes? Dwell I but in the suburbs
Never any did so, though very many have been beside
Both for your honour better and your cause;
Why, how now, Hecate! you look angerly.
That all the court admired him for submission:
For you'll prove perjured if you make me stay.
Now, Charmian!
Report the feature of Octavia, her years,
Let heaven revenge; for I may never lift
'Help, ho! they murder Caesar!' Who's within?
incharitable dog!
Sir, I do invite you too; you shall not
Thy dowerless daughter, king, thrown to my chance,
Nay, a mother:
SCENE VI. The English camp in Picardy.
Doth, like a poisonous mineral, gnaw my inwards;
A woman's will; a canker'd grandam's will!
That is thy charge: then to the elements
They please us well. Lord marquess, kneel down:
And instantly unlock my fortunes here.
Mark, Marcus, mark! I understand her signs:
I have not that alacrity of spirit,
Turn all her mother's pains and benefits
Exit Francis
Then hear me speak in indifferently for all;
Exit
Did gage them both in an unjust behalf,
honour, in giving him our own voices with our own
SCENE I:
And wrap our bodies in black mourning gowns,
Belike she thinks that Proteus hath forsook her.
That's not an office for a friend, my lord.
What say you, Scarlet and John?
Beating him
Break off thy song, and haste thee quick away:
Brother,--
Is strange and peevish.
O wretched villain!
SONG.
Good night.
loose any longer; you must be pinioned.
How they may be, and yet in two,
Whose minister you are, whiles here he lived
Listening their fear, I could not say 'Amen,'
And tribunes with their tongues doom men to death.
Thee will I love and with thee lead my life:
When he is here, even at thy solemn feast,
look about you: security gives way to conspiracy.
Which fear if better reasons can supplant,
Wilt thou draw near the nature of the gods?
As true as steel, as plantage to the moon,
But tread the stranger paths of banishment.
I'll wink and couch: no man their works must eye.
Lest it may mar your fortunes.
Peace-a your tongue. Speak-a your tale.
He cannot speak, my lord.
What, art so near? If thou'lt see a thing to talk
And they shall say, when Richard me begot,
out more apparel than the man. But art not thou
And let him find it. Trifles light as air
Is not to leave't undone, but keep't unknown.
Post on the lame feet of my rhyme;
Stolen by my daughter! Justice! find the girl;
My lord of Gloucester, 'tis my special hope
That he's undrown'd.
Is't good to soothe him in these contraries?
As near the dawning, provost, as it is,
Not for Cadwallader and all his goats.
But I must tell you, now my thoughts revolt
By him one step below, he by the next,
And but for our approach those sleeping stones,
Thou art an exile, and thou must not stay:
To FLAVIUS
But grow like savages,--as soldiers will
Talk you of young Master Launcelot?
Or half her worthiness that gave the ring,
Here cometh Charles: I marvel how he sped.
person hath here writ. I must to the learned.--In good time.
Shared dangers with you,--
Her infinite variety: other women cloy
Enter PISANIO
Born in Northamptonshire and eldest son,
O, is this he?
For here, I hope, begins our lasting joy.
Steed threatens steed, in high and boastful neighs
rumination wraps me m a most humorous sadness.
Lives my sweet son?
To RICHMOND
Exeunt
The king my uncle is to blame for this:
Who now the price of his dear blood doth owe?
Where art thou, death?
Shall fall you for refusing him at sea,
palsies, raw eyes, dirt-rotten livers, wheezing
More calf, certain.
commons of Melford.' How now, sir knave!
Shall we hear from thee, Tyrrel, ere we sleep?
More sharper than your swords, hie to the field:
A better wife, let him in nought be trusted,
Forward, I pray, since we have come so far,
As zephyrs blowing below the violet,
May through the centre creep and so displease
Yes, thou spokest well of me.
Amphimachus and Thoas deadly hurt,
My lord, will you walk? dinner is ready.
Tending to Caesar's glories; which Mark Antony,
it is naught. In respect that it is solitary, I
I thank thee, fellow; thou servest me, and I'll
What one, i' faith?
And so did I; and, to say the truth, so did very
And ill it doth beseem your holiness
Would I might
we see how mortal an unkindness is to them;
Come hither, Bess, and let me kiss my boy.
Yea, my lord; but I can cross it.
You show great mercy, if you give him life,
Good my lord, soothe him; let him take the fellow.
the mart; let him look to his bond: he was wont to
By good Euriphile, our mother.
I am content.
Believe me, sister, of all the men alive
Being, as it is, much spoke of.
That's all I seek:
Enter ANGELO, ESCALUS, and a Justice, Provost, Officers, and other Attendants, behind
Never yet taint with love, I send the king.
Much more to be thus opposite with heaven,
'Thus didest thou.'
O, stop there a little!
I have with exact view perused thee, Hector,
Good gentlemen, give him a further edge,
Be woe for me, more wretched than he is.
Were I a common laugher, or did use
Let me march on, and not offend your grace.
Whereto the climber-upward turns his face;
And to 't they go like lightning, for, ere I
And flourishes his blade in spite of me.
Exit
Therefore lay hold of him;
And not a thought but thinks on dignity.
Unarm, unarm, and do not fight to-day.
There shouldst thou find one heinous article,
Should have thus little mercy on their flesh?
And as for you yourself, our quondam queen,
And slept above some fifteen year or more.
were troth-plight to her.
He hopes by you his fortunes yet may flourish.
Good night, good night! parting is such
Menenius ever, ever.
And cast you, with the waters that you lose,
Shall share the good of our returned fortune,
That with our small conjunction we should on,
Shall then my father's will be of no force
To beg enfranchisement for Publius Cimber.
Thou offspring of the house of Lancaster
Awaked you not with this sore agony?
And dangerous success of bloody wars,
Antony call; I see him rouse himself
For 'tis the sport to have the engineer
Made you my guardians, my depositaries;
Bark when their fellows do: by some of these
DON
SCENE XV. The same. A monument.
So Got udge me, that is a virtuous mind.
not such a name. Page is an ass, a secure ass: he
I pity you.
One turf shall serve as pillow for us both;
Will you lead, lords?
To whom I am subdued, are but light to me,
deceived in Angelo! If ever he return and I can
Enter a Messenger
Within his truncheon's length; whilst they, distilled
Enter the BASTARD OF ORLEANS
Blest, and mine own!
And live the purer with the other half.
files: I would do the man what honour I can, but of
cannot abide the old woman of Brentford; he swears
Here, boys, here, here! shall we wag?
Ay, so he says.
A sorry breakfast for my lord protector.
If it be sin to say so, I yoke me
It fits thee not to ask the reason why,
To LAERTES
Dispose of her
In Italy, and her confederate arms,
Ah, now no more will I control thy griefs:
Re-enter BIONDELLO
But why should honour outlive honesty?
Are gone to Bolingbroke, dispersed and fled.
In murders and in outrage, boldly here;
With striving less to be so; lesser had been
Nay, hated too, worse than the great'st infection
And neither way inclines.
Enter ISABELLA and FRANCISCA
which may, without contradiction, suffer the report.
Not a whit,
It shall be Romeo, whom you know I hate,
That I mean to thee. Tell thy mistress how
Ay.
That with his name the mothers still their babes?
Lucy, farewell; no more my fortune can,
worlds suffer,
to undo us. Will you not go the way of women-kind?
An if thou hast the mettle of a king,
Where is Nan now and her troop of fairies, and the
Uncover, dogs, and lap.
No beast so fierce but knows some touch of pity.
Gracious my lord, hard by here is a hovel;
That never mean to part.
Talk not to me, for I'll not speak a word:
Grapple your minds to sternage of this navy,
Nay, he nods at us, as who should say, I'll be even
That hath dismissed us from our stewardship;
It is, my lord.
Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' the air to stick:
'Tis thought the king is dead; we will not stay.
Without you? nay, that's certain, for, without you
Is, as in mockery, set: the spring, the summer,
You lack the season of all natures, sleep.
Your enemies and his find something in him.
Why, old soldier,
Exit
without you; especially that of Cleopatra's, which
than I have of my face when I last saw him.
You must think, if we give you any thing, we hope to
But what will you be call'd?
How ugly didst thou in Cordelia show!
Exeunt
I do not like her name.
No pains, sir: I take pleasure in singing, sir.
[Reads]  'The battle with the Centaurs, to be sung
To this submission. Yet I well remember
With any branch or image of thy state;
I am merrier to die than thou art to live.
Well, then, here's the point:
Fears, and despairs; and all these for his marriage:
Exit RODERIGO
O my son, what theme?
Ingrate forgetfulness shall poison, rather
Tend me to-night two hours, I ask no more,
As kill a man, or else devise his death,
busy below; and so, I pray you, go, in God's name,
Against whose charms faith melteth into blood.
for't. What players are they?
If damned custom have not brass'd it so
And I, as fits my nature, do obey you:
Marry, my lord, there is a nobleman of the court at
grief; in fine, made a groan of her last breath, and
Let's whip these stragglers o'er the seas again;
With the most boldest and best hearts of Rome.
Your colder reasons.
plainly, Claudio undergoes my challenge; and either
Exeunt SHALLOW, and SLENDER
Were not in fault, for she was beautiful;
Yes, I beseech; or I shall short my word
Herein your highness wrongs both them and me.
Opens the gate
And bid the lady abbess come to me.
As Hector pleases.
Lysander! speak again:
Unlawfully made drunk with innocents' blood!
If e'er the Jew her father come to heaven,
Marry, by these special marks: first, you have
Make of your prayers one sweet sacrifice,
The present benefit which I possess;
out of fear.
As doubtful whether what I see be true,
And now my tongue's use is to me no more
For we may pity, though not pardon thee.
Out of the path which shall directly lead
The duke is very strangely gone from hence;
I myself fight not once in forty year.
God knows I had as lief be none as one.
Troilus had rather Troy were borne to Greece
Shall Suffolk ever have of Margaret.
Than for the love of reckless Silvia.
Exeunt
Lord Saturninus Rome's great emperor,
To Oxford, or where'er these traitors are:
To make thy riches pleasant. What's yet in this
In your own losses, if he stay in France.
Fall ten times treble on that cursed head,
tap: said I well, bully Hector?
Which obloquy set bars before my tongue,
We are not, sir, nor are we like to be;
You ever-gentle gods, take my breath from me:
The scars upon your honour, therefore, he
Hail, virgin, if you be, as those cheek-roses
Make Ossa like a wart! Nay, an thou'lt mouth,
God save the mark!--here on his manly breast:
What is a traitor?
What hoop should hold us stanch, from edge to edge
Exeunt
I have heard, but not believed,
Are not you grieved that Arthur is his prisoner?
And Lord Scales with him and Lord Hungerford:
into a desperate assurance she will none of him:
And in her bosom I'll unclasp my heart
Well, do your discretion.
Why would she have me kill'd?
with her needle: an admirable musician: O! she
While I use further conference with Warwick.
If more, the more thou hast wrong'd me.
As the sweet Troilus. O you gods divine!
He will be the physician that should be the patient.
We two in great amazedness will fly:
But fear the sword like me, he'll scarcely look on't.
with an unpitied whipping, for you have been a
How! let me see:
And yet I would that you would answer me.
When ye first put this dangerous stone a-rolling,
The northern lords that have forsworn thy colours
That's very true, my lord.
Well, farewell; I am in great haste now.
What you require of him? for he partly begs
What pageantry, what feats, what shows,
So much I love his heart: but, I perceive,
She is going
Enter CLOTEN
To the descent and dust below thy foot,
There is no vice so simple but assumes
What charitable men afford to beggars.
O, sir, things must be as they may; and what a man
Therefore I pray you: I'll see you by and by.
To CHIRON
Enter ALONSO, SEBASTIAN, ANTONIO, GONZALO, ADRIAN, FRANCISCO, and others
So much, dear liege, I have already sworn,
Part shame, part spirit renew'd; that some,
With torch-staves in their hand; and their poor jades
Take with you your companions; as you look
Drinks
And to be judged by him.
That by the top doth take the mountain pine,
And given to fornications, and to taverns and sack
your heart to see it. Her husband goes this morning
The thane of Fife had a wife: where is she now?--
'Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath.'
To the Spirits
SCENE III. A room in the Garter Inn.
Ere they can hide their levity in honour;
To that I'll urge him: therefore thou shalt vow
Every fairy take his gait;
Woe the while!
But what particular rarity? what strange,
Enter AGAMEMNON, ULYSSES, NESTOR, DIOMEDES, and AJAX
I see them not with my old eyes: what are they?
No, Escanes, know this of me,
Which I will purchase with my duteous service;
And skip where thou point'st out? will the
He left me proudly, as unworthy fight.
Fetch us in fuel; and be quick, thou'rt best,
O good Antonio, forgive me your trouble.
Doth fancy any other but Lucentio?
Cast by their grave beseeming ornaments,
Married Richard Earl of Cambridge; who was son
Peace, I say!
The old priest of Saint Luke's church is at your
Their sense thus weak, lost with their fears
I did say so,
A second course of fight.
Or as tie heresies that men do leave
His name with zealous fervor sanctify:
Thy sin's not accidental, but a trade.
And turn'd crown'd kings to merchants.
Yea, 'gainst the authority of manners, pray'd you
Mistress Thersites!
Besides, I like you not. If you will know my house,
If thou speak'st false,
That no man is the lord of any thing,
Tybalt is gone, and Romeo banished;
Sir,
And will you pale your head in Henry's glory,
Excusez-moi, Alice; ecoutez: de hand, de fingres,
His sons he there proclaim'd the kings of kings:
And last eat up himself. Great Agamemnon,
I  would 'twere bed-time, Hal, and all well.
Rome, I have been thy soldier forty years,
In mouths of wisest censure: what's the matter,
I thank you, good people: there shall be no money;
marriage honourable in a beggar? Is not your lord
men, and remain a beast with the beasts?
And ask the Lady Bona for thy queen:
And his well-chosen bride.
I charge thee do so, as thou art my child.
As you think fit to furnish me to-morrow?
And shakes his head and trembling stands aloof,
Still close as sure.
I have seen her wear it; and she reckon'd it
If that his majesty would aught with us,
The lane is guarded: nothing routs us but
And Ferdinand, her brother, found a wife
To whom?
Follow I must; I cannot go before,
I'll once more feast the rascals.
How now, fair lords! What fare? what news abroad?
Fair is foul, and foul is fair:
Should she kneel down in mercy of this fact,
that? your majesty and we that have free souls, it
We see the ground whereon these woes do lie;
SCENE VII. On board POMPEY's galley, off Misenum.
That she vouchsafe me audience for one word.
Thou art a Roman; be not barbarous:
That, like an eagle in a dove-cote, I
Let's in;
Be round impaled with a glorious crown.
Thou dreadful Ajax; that the appalled air
To this same blessed Milford: and by the way
That's yet unbruised: bring me but out at gate.
Enforce him with his envy to the people,
me.'
And not protract with admiration what
We come not by the way of accusation,
For nature doth abhor to make his bed
And then to Rome. Come, Dolabella, see
It would unclew me quite.
Was my father a traitor, mother?
Upon the daring huntsman that has gall'd him;
Advances to CAESAR
In warlike march these greens before your town,
another thing: we must have a wall in the great
He's in the right. Constable, what say you to it?
And spies a far-off shore where he would tread,
Of a poor 'pothecary, and therewithal
truly: wisely I say, I am a bachelor.
Whose hearts have left their bodies here in England
Restored me to my honours, and, out of ruins,
Of breaking honesty--horsing foot on foot?
SCENE IV. Belmont. A room in PORTIA'S house.
Tell me, and dally not, where is the money?
This is a strange repose, to be asleep
For such receipt of learning is Black-Friars;
Of these thy compounds on such creatures as
And all my pains is sorted to no proof.
Your lady mother is coming to your chamber:
Proceeding from the heat-oppressed brain?
Gentlemen, enough of this: it came in too suddenly;
all's done.
And that I see, in passages of proof,
SCENE II. Saint Alban's.
Who, as Ulysses says, opinion crowns
Whom thou obeyed'st thirty and six years,
And, all my powers, address your love and might
quickly, and speak apace. I would thou couldst
thousand; here will be father, godfather, and all together.
Exit Guardsman
save thy grace,--majesty I should say, for grace
Descend, and keep your words.
Other affairs must now be managed.
Well are you welcome to the open air.
Breasting the lofty surge: O, do but think
His peace with Rome? What is that peace to me?
But think upon my grief, a lady's grief,
Why, lady, Love hath twenty pair of eyes.
Comfort my sister, cheer her, call her wife:
Do not smile at me that I boast her off,
When holy and devout religious men
Not unlike, sir, that may be.
Would all themselves laugh mortal.
she thanks you a thousand times; and she gives you
As all the tuned spheres, and that to friends;
He couples it to his complaining names.
Look, if my gentle love be not raised up!
Shouting, and throwing up their caps
herself swore th' other day, that Troilus, for
What's your name?
To the palace, an it like your worship.
This sudden stag of rancour I misdoubt:
Which he has put upon't!
He is a privileged man. Proceed, Thersites.
Exeunt
And thereupon he sends you this good news,
From me, the lord on't.
Than mid-day sun fierce bent against their faces.
And in thy thought o'er-run my former time;
Religious in mine error, I adore
I'll intermingle every thing he does
Are of the adder. Which of them shall I take?
To put apart these your attendants, I
Ask her forgiveness?
Ere he, that should be husband, comes to woo.
And not deface your honour with reproach?
Although by confiscation they are ours,
They, for their truth, might better wear their heads
Now am I seated as my soul delights,
Are newly grown to love: the condemn'd Pompey,
It shall be done.
You must not stay here longer, your dismission
Feed arrogance and are the proud man's fees.
Enter CAPHIS
Whate'er you be, I am obedient.
We'll bury him; and then, what's brave,
Sends word of all that haps in Tyre:
prayer, for here he comes in the likeness of a Jew.
Where is he?
Sweet prince, let me go no farther to mine answer:
me; in requital whereof, henceforth carry your
is to accuse your mothers; which is most infallible
spitting or saying we are hoarse, which are the only
is now the general: may say so in this respect, for
Even from darkness.
sent your worship a morning's draught of sack.
Coupled to nature.
And in her train there is a gentle lady;
It is a fery discretion answer; save the fall is in
Well, I am your theme: you have the start of me; I
Go, go; you are a counterfeit cowardly knave. Will
I speak it with a single heart, my lords,
I could be merry now. Hubert, I love thee;
Had I but time--as this fell sergeant, death,
'Faith sir, we were carousing till the
My lord, I do confess the ring was hers.
And for these great affairs do ask some charge,
O, woe the day!
You fools of fortune, trencher-friends, time's flies,
Fling up his cap, and say 'God save his majesty!'
Long may he live in fortunes! Shall we in?
To achieve her! how?
Had circumvention? 'Tis not four days gone
In this self-place where now we mean to stand.
gods great harm in their women; for in every ten
[To KING CLAUDIUS]  O, ho! do you mark that?
Than love that's hired! What, goest thou back? thou shalt
What, art mad? A man may see how this world goes
Dauphin, I am by birth a shepherd's daughter,
There is a devilish mercy in the judge,
Is 'plain and true;' there's all the reach of it.
All is whole;
Dies
Your face hath got five hundred pound a year,
this garment through the rough seams of the waters:
Well, let them rest. Come hither, Catesby.
Mere fathers of their garments; whose constancies
Sticks me at heart. Sir, you have well deserved:
That ever enter'd in a drowsy head,
As doth import you.
Still to remember wrongs? Daughter, speak you:
And those of true condition, that your subjects
Reprieve thee from thy fate, it should proceed:
This must not be:' and then I precepts gave her,
For that which I did then: beaten for loyalty
My father's death--
Why, thou picture of what thou seemest, and idol
miry a place, how she was bemoiled, how he left her
give me your hand. How does your drum?
Truly, I have him: but I would not be the party
Ne'er feels retiring ebb, but keeps due on
honourable friend.
Desire him not to flatter with his lord,
Might be affronted with the match and weight
But with good will. To show our simple skill,
If I would time expend with such a snipe.
letter, being so excellently ignorant, will breed no
And do my spiriting gently.
Very well mended. Kiss him for that, good widow.
in buckram suits. I tell thee what, Hal, if I tell
Well said, my lord.
Out of his self-drawing web, he gives us note,
I pray you home to dinner with me.
How calm and gentle I proceeded still
me more wit than ever I learned before in my life;
Yet Brutus says he was ambitious;
My lord, I must confess I know this woman:
To reach at victory above my head,
The fox barks not when he would steal the lamb.
He bear himself with honourable action,
Not to a rage: patience and sorrow strove
speech of him.
Half afeard to come.
in the letter. 'Cast thy humble slough,' says she;
Which calls me pupil, or hath read to me?
I'll to the Duke of Suffolk presently.
I say, away! Go on; I'll follow thee.
Gentlemen, importune me no farther,
They are, my lord.
thou follow him, thou must needs wear my coxcomb.
Metellus Cimber throws before thy seat
In sadness, cousin, I do love a woman.
In doing it, pays itself. Your highness' part
Sirrah, do I owe you a thousand pound?
Keep Rome in safety, and the chairs of justice
Thou hast a lady far more beautiful
Do me some service, ere I come to thee.
For here we entertain a solemn peace.
'Tis he.
Not ours, or not allow'd; what worst, as oft,
their books,
Will he woo her? ay, or I'll hang her.
That possible strength might meet, would seek us through
What wouldst thou of us, Trojan? make demand.
Speak in the order of his funeral.
Believe 't, I will.
great meals of beef and iron and steel, they will
A serpent stung me; so the whole ear of Denmark
And all to all.
And with her golden hand hath pluck'd on France
The best she hath, and she, of all compounded,
Before you, Lepidus.
dares, being dared.
It was some fiend; therefore, thou happy father,
time shall serve, there shall be smiles; but that
Of those physicians that first wounded thee:
Besides--I ha' not since put up my sword--
Suspect me, that I mean no good to him:
And I am sick when I look not on you.
I' the mire.
The heart-ache and the thousand natural shocks
We follow thee.
Yea, from the table of my memory
We'll quickly hoise Duke Humphrey from his seat.
met you at the prison, in the absence of the duke.
Like death, when he shuts up the day of life;
Command in Anjou what your honour pleases.
Come, offer at my shrine, and I will help thee.'
But she did scorn a present that I sent her.
Shall I descend? and will you give me leave?
Nay, I was rhyming: 'tis you that have the reason.
Wasted our country, slain our citizens
Strike off this score of absence. Sweet Bianca,
How now, Kate! I must leave you within these two hours.
I conjure thee to leave me and be gone.
O you gods!
was a sailor.
And gape at widest to glut him.
You must think this, look you, that the worm will
The pale-faced moon looks bloody on the earth
And in the vapour of my glory smother'd.
That would hang us, every mother's son.
No, as I am a man.
Invited her to supper: she replied,
The exile of her minion is too new;
But, like a timorous thief, most fain would steal
So were their daggers, which unwiped we found
Gracing the scroll that tells of this war's loss
Kneels
to-morrow, Sir Toby.
Becomes a sun and makes your son a shadow:
You know to-morrow is the wedding-day.
And the best quarrels, in the heat, are cursed
you see? look you there: there's no jesting;
To be inclined my way!
Have I, my lord? I assure my good liege,
Holding out gold that's by the touchstone tried;
Here, sir; what is your pleasure?
The dreadful motion of a murderous thought;
'Tell him, in hope he'll prove a widower shortly,
But you shall do no harm.
In faith, I will. Let me peruse this face.
I will fly, like a dog, the heels o' the ass.
supper to him, of purpose to have him spend less,
Yielded the town: he is retired to Antium.
Who alone suffers suffers most i' the mind,
It were a better death than die with mocks,
But to your wishes' height advance you both.
Enter a Messenger
the knave and get thee, I am much deceived. But,
And without trial fell; God's peace be with him!
Being men of such great leading as you are,
Eight score eight hours? and lovers' absent hours,
What will hap more to-night, safe 'scape the king!
And cherish factions: 'tis inferr'd to us,
No drop but as a coach doth carry thee;
Dardan, and Tymbria, Helias, Chetas, Troien,
SCENE VI. The same. Another room in the palace.
SCENE III. A churchyard; in it a tomb belonging to the Capulets.
Hum, ha!
The miserable have no other medicine
all, and he gives me the stuck in with such a mortal
We are alone; here's none but thee and I.
That ever love did make thee run into,
How now, sir! What's your name? and what's the matter?
O, but for my love, day would turn to night!
Will you tell me that?
A fellow, sir, that I have known to go about with
Is not lead a metal heavy, dull, and slow?
Good argument, I hope, we will not fly--
[Aside to CLARENCE]  The widow likes him not, she
to the same diseases, healed by the same means,
Would we were all discharged!
to you: so you may continue and laugh at
And arms her with the boldness of a wife
Subscribed it, gave't the impression, placed it safely,
Enter RICHMOND, OXFORD, BLUNT, HERBERT, and others, with drum and colours
your voices! Come, Audrey.
Follow and see there be no harm between them.
again for all the coin in thy father's exchequer.
I have seen him in France: we had very many there
How now, foolish rheum!
To try me with affliction; had they rain'd
You were as flowers, now wither'd: even so
There are some shrewd contents in yon same paper,
What has he done to Rome that's worthy death?
and where they would be safe, they perish: then if
I will do so. Signior Fabian, stay you by this
To intercept this inconvenience,
bed; which bed, because it shall not speak of your
By which I did blame Cato for the death
If this austere insociable life
your lordship.
And, for I know thou'rt full of love and honesty,
I am satisfied in nature,
'Hic steterat,' and that Lucentio that comes
Assured bondage?'
Now, the report goes she has all the rule of her
How now! what news?
Get undescried.
neat's leather have gone upon my handiwork.
Ay, boy.
Degrees in schools and brotherhoods in cities,
The senators with one consent of love
should down.
A lover's eyes will gaze an eagle blind;
That says his bravery is not of my cost,
Clapp'd to their gates: he is himself alone,
e, b, t, not d, e, t: he clepeth a calf, cauf;
Did stumble with haste in his eyesight to be;
Lend me your hands; to the next chamber bear her.
hath confessed himself to Morgan, whom he supposes
that I love thee. If my uncle, thy banished father,
It is in my scabbard: shall I draw it?
Was rightful heir unto the English crown
A contract of true love to celebrate;
that you know: if you will follow me, I will show
SCENE III. A room in Sempronius' house.
They have their exits and their entrances;
And will not wrong it.
The noble Scot, Lord Douglas, when he saw
Our wills and fates do so contrary run
Or, had he heard the heavenly harmony
As whence the sun 'gins his reflection
Be those the garments?
Desire the earl to see me in my tent:
Robs the vast sea: the moon's an arrant thief,
The country gives me proof and precedent
and heart-burning heat of duty.
There is nor flying hence nor tarrying here.
I had rather pray a month with mutton and porridge.
Drinking my griefs, whilst you mount up on high.
Your lady seeks my life; come you between,
Meeting were bare without it.
Fetch in our wood and serves in offices
For mocking marriage with a dame of France.
Whose heart the accustom'd sight of death makes hard,
Most rightful judge!
But that his negligence, his folly, fear,
Warwick and Talbot, Salisbury and Gloucester,
You shall not write my praise.
Are mighty gossips in this monarchy.
there live we as merry as the day is long.
To shine on my contemptible estate:
Richard, thy wife, that wretched Anne thy wife,
but, to my thinking, he was very loath to lay his
When it hath blown his ranks into the air,
With sleight and manhood stole to Rhesus' tents,
I do relent: what would thou more of man?
Approach thou like the rugged Russian bear,
If you have writ your annals true, 'tis there,
purses go by the moon and the seven stars, and not
Nor send him forth that we may bear him hence.
Nor thou within the compass of my curse.
Half an hour since brought my report.
Than but once think this place becomes thee not.
Exeunt ALCIBIADES and Lords
Yours would I catch, fair Hermia, ere I go;
Choler does kill me that thou art alive;
For our affairs in hand: if that come short,
Save, from my glass, mine own; nor have I seen
Affection is not rated from the heart:
Of your chaste daughter the wide difference
I am glad to see your highness.
Whither you will, so I were from your sights.
cork into a hogshead. And then for the
Your own desert!
Exit
I am supposed dead: the army breaking,
Oft have I digg'd up dead men from their graves,
And to rebuke the usurpation
With wax I brought away, whose soft impression
'lady, lady, lady.'
Now sleep y-slaked hath the rout;
May it please your grace, Antipholus, my husband,
By the four opposing coigns
Seals a commission to a blank of danger;
Methinks I see him stamp thus, and call thus:
Both of one horse?
Stand up, good Canterbury:
Who told me, in the field by Tewksbury
Let nature crush the sides o' the earth together
A labour saved!
Pour out the pack of matter to mine ear,
I'll leave it by degrees. Soft, let us see:
Have done the time more benefit and graced
Envelope you, good Provost! Who call'd here of late?
They promised me eternal happiness;
O insupportable and touching loss!
speak you.
Whom envy hath immured within your walls!
And drive away the vulgar from the streets:
And friendship shall combine, and brotherhood:
As one man more, methinks, would share from me
This fellow doth not stand upon points.
Come hither, Mariana.
I cannot sing: I'll weep, and word it with thee;
Prepare thy battle early in the morning,
To desperation turn my trust and hope!
Is he so much? Do you not think he thinks himself a
But say, is Warwick friends with Margaret?
And will deny him:
That meat was made for mouths, that the gods sent not
Were not my doors lock'd up and I shut out?
To lie in watch there and to think on him?
As that which causeth it: how can I moderate it?
So long attended thee. If thou wert honourable,
or thus. Our bodies are our gardens, to the which
Exit SHYLOCK
Cast your election on him.
Then, sir,
surprise me. My sword make way for me, for here is
O, uncle, would some part of my young years
In Rome, as well as I	mechanic slaves
With those five talents.
Seem to me all the uses of this world!
I sent for thee upon a sad occasion.
name? Faith, here's an equivocator, that could
To treat of high affairs touching that time.
The aediles, ho!
Here is a box; I had it from the queen:
Shall not behold her face at ample view;
Shall thy old dugs once more a traitor rear?
Would ever with Marina be:
With what, i' the name of God?
I'll fetch you one.
Lent him our terror, dress'd him with our love,
That they did wake each other: I stood and heard them:
Then like a Roman bear the truth I tell:
Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
I do.
younger brothers, revolted tapsters and ostlers
if her breath were as terrible as her terminations,
'Silvia, this night I will enfranchise thee.'
Some haunted by the ghosts they have deposed;
noise there? What are you?
[Sings]
have run some ground. My master's a very Jew: give
Ah, Rome! Well, well; I made thee miserable
The raven chides blackness.
walk: I will even take my leave of you, and pace
Having displeased my father, to Laurence' cell,
Have a tongue to doom my brother's death,
Enter EUPHRONIUS, ambassador from MARK ANTONY
Into whose hand I give thy life.
terms of my honour precise: I, I, I myself
When they are fretten with the gusts of heaven;
'Good friend,' quoth he,
According to the honour of his sender;
Uncle, Adieu: O, let the hours be short
In dangerous wars, whilst you securely slept;
And then you fled into this abbey here,
Vain Thurio, whom my very soul abhors.
Doth set my pugging tooth on edge;
And let them be recall'd from their exile:
Trinculo, run into no further danger:
As if a channel should be call'd the sea,--
Say, wherefore didst thou lock me forth to-day?
O fortune, fortune! all men call thee fickle:
riding to London with fat purses: I have vizards
Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
To keep with you at meals, comfort your bed,
Thy old groans ring yet in my ancient ears;
Prick'd on by public wrongs sustain'd in France,
Vere is Mistress Page? By gar, I am cozened: I ha'
Tybalt, the reason that I have to love thee
with thee to disgrace her.
Here come the clusters.
My noble father, Henry of Buckingham,
Unless thou wert more loyal than thou art:
Of what coarse metal ye are moulded, envy:
You with your children will he send before:
Under our tents I'll play the eaves-dropper,
Of lullaby to bring her babe asleep.
I beseech your honour to hear me one single word.
And misbegotten blood I spill of thine,
Your dinner, and the generous islanders
Ay, but, by your leave, not before me; the
My mother, and my nurse, that bears me yet!
Alas, I am not coop'd here for defence!
Exit
Hail!
Till the injurious Romans did extort
Think, speak, cast, write, sing, number, ho!
liquor. Ah, ha! Mistress Ford and Mistress Page
But being so allow'd: to apprehend thus,
I say, it is not lost.
from this place, do what they can: I will walk up
Cupid at the flight; and my uncle's fool, reading
Yet put it out, for I would not be seen.
I must begin with rudiments of art;
If he had been forgotten,
The dragon wing of night o'erspreads the earth,
My Ariel, chick,
But he hath chid me hence and threaten'd me
Whose want gives growth to the imperfections
As ignorance made drunk. But yet, I say,
The French king's sister: he shall marry her.
Go not away. What have you there, my friend?
Well, then, I'll double your folly.
Make up the rest upon you!
The thicket is beset; he cannot 'scape.
Then, England's ground, farewell; sweet soil, adieu;
impudent, embossed rascal, if there were anything in
Then talk no more of flight, it is no boot;
Yet are these feet, whose strengthless stay is numb,
By custom of the coronation.
I'faith, sir, you shall never need to fear:
But, masters, here's money for you: and the general
Ay, indeed, sir.
Which ne'er shook hands, nor bade farewell to him,
I am amazed, methinks, and lose my way
Neither.
Hath taught us how to cherish such high deeds
What grows of it, no matter; advise your fellows so:
prostrate and grovel on the earth; John Southwell,
Excellent good, i' faith.
Nay, he's at two hands with me, and that my two ears
to old shoes; when they are in great danger, I
Be fear'd of doing harm: make your own purpose,
The court of Rome commanding, you, my lord
No, no, they would not.
The treasure of her honour. No more. To what end?
A statue than a breather.
I am content.
Receive it friendly; but from this time forth
Seems, madam! nay it is; I know not 'seems.'
That will be never: tune your instrument.
But hold himself safe in his prisonment.
Farewell, my Desdemona: I'll come to thee straight.
O hear me, Isabella!
Now where's the Bastard's braves, and Charles his gleeks?
What is that wrong whereof you both complain?
It may be so, but I did never see it.
Glory grows guilty of detested crimes,
Have stood against the world; now lies he there.
Where as the king and queen do mean to hawk.
[Aside to CLEOPATRA]  'Tis one of those odd
Unless Lord Suffolk straight be done to death,
Nay, then, 'tis time to stir him from his trance.
I flatter not; but say thou art a caitiff.
fragment, some slender sort of his remainder: the
Good morrow, masters: each his several way.
more; for look, where my abridgement comes.
Descends
Nay, it is ten times true; for truth is truth
What she has done for me?
A nest of traitors!
Now, by my sceptre's awe, I make a vow,
Bow themselves when he did sing:
All torment, trouble, wonder and amazement
What a blow was there given!
What's he that speaks for Edmund Earl of Gloucester?
To this most cruel act, do but despair;
Quitting thee thereby of ten thousand shames,
Is of a king become a banish'd man,
If you find a man there, he shall die a flea's death.
And all good men of this ungovern'd isle.
Are stol'n away and fled; which puts upon them
I hope, upon familiarity will grow more contempt:
Turns head against the lion's armed jaws,
I come to him.
Remember, William; focative is caret.
so inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of
I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players;
And with the ostent of war will look so huge,
I throw thy name against the bruising stones,
Where is that viper? bring the villain forth.
While sense can keep it on. And, sweetest, fairest,
This is the very false gallop of verses: why do you
Farewell, my liege. Now no way can I stray;
love thee,
But if your title to the crown be weak,
Come, madam, and come, Richard, we must speed
Which, as it seems, make thee.
Tempests themselves, high seas, and howling winds,
And able horses. No porter at his gate,
With such a number. What, must I come to you
No; they were well at peace when I did leave 'em.
Throws the dishes at them, and drives them out
I have a king's oath to the contrary.
Ay, I thank God, my father, and yourself.
I do confess it, and repent it, father.
Therefore use none: let Romeo hence in haste,
couples are coming to the ark. Here comes a pair of
This afternoon.
fortune! here comes the man: to him, father; for I
I thank your grace,
sixpence in earnest of the bear-ward, and lead his
Tell you, I do not, nor I cannot love you?
Now, by Apollo,--
I'm sorry they offend you, heartily;
Come, come, Lavinia; look, thy foes are bound.
Alla stoccata carries it away.
Nay, not sound, I pray you.
Hearing of this.
And we must sleep.
Why, then, good night indeed.
A pond as deep as hell.
Now cheer each other in each other's love
It will be found so, Master Page. Master Doctor
Before that England give the French the foil.
Yet, to recover them, would lose my life.
An eminent monsieur, that, it seems, much loves
Well; what has he done?
My lord, you do me most insupportable vexation.
Is all his soldiership. But he, sir, had the election:
In faith, it is exceedingly well aim'd.
Of the salt deep,
and by again.
The forest walks are wide and spacious;
or come tardy off, though it make the unskilful
Will make but little for his benefit.
My faction if thou strengthen with thy friends,
Yet leave our cousin Katharine here with us:
Enter QUEEN and Ladies
SCENE III. The same.
Whom he begot with child, let her appear,
Venetian admittance.
Ha! what is that?
On flickering Phoebus' front,--
Now I do frown on thee with all my heart;
thee further.
I muse your majesty doth seem so cold,
Lies he not bed-rid? and again does nothing
I apt, and my saying pretty?
Pity not honour'd age for his white beard;
Think that I am unking'd by Bolingbroke,
Fear not, my lord, your servant shall do so.
By the suggestion of the queen's allies;
My horse, my ox, my ass, my any thing;
You have in manner with your sinful hours
It wounds thine honour that I speak it now--
But as we, under heaven, are supreme head,
defend thee.'
their consciences. But, in good sooth, are you he
I sin in envying his nobility,
If 'gainst yourself you be incensed, we'll put you,
The provost, he shall bear them, whose contents
He hath ta'en the infection: hold it up.
Exeunt all except HENRY, KATHARINE, and ALICE
A thousand times more fair, ten thousand times more rich;
Exeunt severally
And plant your joys in living Edward's throne.
The king himself; who, Douglas, grieves at heart
Abroad? why then, women are more valiant
Gives a letter
What dost thou mean?
Who bow'd but in my stirrup, bend like his
the tribulation of Tower-hill, or the limbs of
sanctimony she accomplished; and, there residing the
They call it Agincourt.
Recover'd is the town of Orleans:
king hold his purpose, I will win for him an I can;
A devil in an everlasting garment hath him;
If 'twill tie up thy discontented sword,
Three, they say: but 'tis thought of every one
here acquired for him shall at home be encountered
it will let this man live! But how out of this can she avail?
Hail, reverend sir! the gods preserve you!
Will cheque him for 't: your purposed low correction
come, come, come, come, give me your hand. What's
Exeunt
Your gaoler shall deliver you the keys
Ay, touch him; there's the vein.
Let there be gall enough in thy ink, though thou
Flying for succor to his servant Banister,
And died so?
For I am Welsh, you know, good countryman.
My heart for anger burns; I cannot brook it.
by mine honour,
That was not born of woman? Such a one
love, my dear Moth?
Till now I never knew thee!
So, bring us to our palace; where we'll show
But, if you hold it fit, after the play
as the pomewater, who now hangeth like a jewel in
To-morrow are let blood at Pomfret-castle;
And, had you not by wondrous fortune come,
Better it is to die, better to starve,
Come with a thought I thank thee, Ariel: come.
Even till the eastern gate, all fiery-red,
She's but the sign and semblance of her honour.
In bringing up my child.
I mean, to go, sir, to enter.
Returns with precious jading to the bay
That hast by tyranny these many years
To any happy messenger from thence.
DON
That has done worthy service.
He by the senate is accit'd home
You shall like diamonds sit about his crown.
The king hath heard them; to the which as yet
As I would do the gods. But, O thou tyrant!
Upon thy feature; for my rage was blind,
an emperor;
Which oft infects the wisest: these, my lord,
Translates his rivals.
We have a trifling foolish banquet towards.
'Tis threefold too little for carrying a letter to
are no husband for her.
For they are actions that a man might play:
So had you need:
Let's mock the midnight bell.
Should sunder such sweet friends. Here in her hairs
for him, then spit at him; that I drave my suitor
I should not urge thy duty past thy might;
against destiny. Ask me not, what I would be, if I
With him the husband of this lovely lady:
mouthed bottle, either too much at once, or none at
SCENE VI. The same.
That you will wonder what hath fortuned.
In the same pulpit whereto I am going,
I'll undertake 't:
Beguiled, divorced, wronged, spited, slain!
Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
Reports but coarsely of her.
Witness all sorrow, that I know thee well
Stay, gentle Margaret, and hear me speak.
Then is he more beholding to you than I.
The loss of such a lord includes all harm.
Evermore cross'd and cross'd; nothing but cross'd!
deed of saying is quite out of use. To promise is
thou shalt find I will most kindly requite. I had
This were kindness.
Of Canterbury, accompanied with other
For the rest of the Worthies?--
Ere sun-rise, prayers from preserved souls,
I will a round unvarnish'd tale deliver
Are mortised and adjoin'd; which, when it falls,
Exeunt
What, Jessica!--thou shalt not gormandise,
Who does i' the wars more than his captain can
Exeunt; those above bearing off MARK ANTONY's body
Daring the event to the teeth, are all in uproar,
Only, this one: Lord Angelo is precise;
And as my duty springs, so perish they
Damnable both-sides rogue!
Thy followers of repentance; that their souls
Shall ever medicine thee to that sweet sleep
To a mother's part belongs. He turns away:
And be it death proclaimed through our host
Exit weeping, followed by BIANCA and others
The law, with all his might to enforce it on,
And who can sever love from charity?
If you but said so, 'twere as deep with me:
Most villanously; like a pedant that keeps a school
ACT II
Will bring him to his wonted way again,
Faith, sir, if you had told as many lies in his
Let housewifery appear: keep close, I thee command.
He sought to murder: but her better stars
That may to thee do ease and grace to me,
Macbeth! Macbeth! Macbeth! beware Macduff;
Being but heavy, I will bear the light.
Is this the Athenian minion, whom the world
but the wood, no assembly but horn-beasts. But what
Was brow-bound with the oak. His pupil age
To hold in right and title of the female:
Bid them farewell, Cordelia, though unkind:
SCENE IV. The same. A hall in Timon's house.
And so he comes, to rend his limbs asunder.
In monumental mockery. Take the instant way;
Why, who cries out on pride,
I do beseech you--
Come hither, Moor:
They place themselves in every corner of the stage
Exeunt
Dost thou think so, spirit?
As water is in water.
By fearing to attempt. Go to Lord Angelo,
O seigneur! le jour est perdu, tout est perdu!
Are the indentures drawn? shall we be gone?
I never robb'd the soldiers of their pay,
As 'tis reported, so.
I'll use thee kindly for thy mistress' sake,
No, my good lord; I have sworn to stay with you:
Unto my brother, Archbishop of York.
acceptance, whose trial shall better publish his
The which shall point you forth at every sitting
Hadst thou been aught but gossamer, feathers, air,
Cuts beauty off from all posterity.
I drink, I eat, array myself, and live.
Marry, sir, I come to your worship from Mistress Ford.
I make you both protectors of this land,
Because she will not be annoy'd with suitors.
If from me he have wholesome beverage,
Which, like dumb mouths, do ope their ruby lips,
Set a fair fashion on our entertainment,
His hands were guilty of no kindred blood,
For I must tell you friendly in your ear,
And so let me entreat you leave the house.
Acquainted me with interest to this land,
Bear me to prison, where I am committed.
Left in the conduct of the bold Iago,
Let me go, I say.
I will hereupon confess I am in love: and as it is
For such an end thou seek'st,--as base as strange.
And in that habit, when Slender sees his time
To know the cause why music was ordain'd!
Or else were this a savage spectacle:
Farewell.
Could man so blench?
And out of my dear love I'll give thee more
If Dauphin and the rest will be but ruled.
She has a good face, speaks well, and has excellent
Your eyes drop millstones, when fools' eyes drop tears:
But thine doth fry.
It comes from Padua, from Bellario:
Enter Hostess
Unknown to you, unsought, were clipp'd about
Beseech you,--
Thy God's, and truth's; then if thou fall'st,
For idiots in this case of favour would
The weight we must convey with's will permit,
Mock not my senseless conjuration, lords:
What I told you then,
And some condemned for a fault alone.
And thence retire me to my Milan, where
Your purse, still open, hath built Lord Cerimon
Against the proclamation of thy passion,
In simple and pure soul I come to you.
But fierce Andronicus would not relent;
Must I behold my pretty Arthur more.
Lay hands upon these traitors and their trash.
and what delight shall she have to look on the
His highness yet doth speak, and holds belief
Strike not a stroke, but keep yourselves in breath:
gain by you.
From forth the noise and rumour of the field,
That their discharge did stretch his leathern coat
where to hide my head: yond same cloud cannot
What hour is it?
Why, worthy father, what have we to lose,
The testimony on my part no other
detects him: 'tis a blushing shamefast spirit that
But shall she marry him?
For my part, I'll not trouble thee with words.
Of capital treason we arrest you here.
O Jesu, my lord the prince!
And that my fainting words do warrant death;
Of the whole body: but, if you do remember,
My very soul of counsel! stop my mouth.
He'll make his cap co-equal with the crown.'
following. Now, sir, for the manner,--it is the
more stubborn and boisterous expedition.
Perchance he's hurt i' the battle.
Wherein we play in.
we go seek Benedick, and tell him of her love?
No more!
SCENE VIII. A field of battle.
She strikes him
Skulking in corners? wishing clocks more swift?
Can my sides hold, to think that man, who knows
He doth revive again: madam, be patient.
answer: my next is, 'Most fair Pyramus.' Heigh-ho!
Did you and he consent in Cassio's death?
A still and quiet conscience. The king has cured me,
Governs Lord Angelo; a man whose blood
Music, make their welcome!
I know a bank where the wild thyme blows,
Where in that nest of spicery they shall breed
And his advantage following your decease,
ours, for we are the only love-gods. Go in with me,
By Jove, I'll play the hunter for thy life
Enter IAGO and RODERIGO
Three lads of Cyprus, noble swelling spirits,
That rail'd against our person: we consider
Why went you not with master doctor, maid?
Exit PANDARUS. An alarum
We may as bootless spend our vain command
The utter loss of all the realm of France.
an honest man should have, he has nothing.
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
And perish constant fools. Who is't can blame him?
Deliver'd to us; and for him forthwith,
impiety has made a feast of thee.
Ay, he said so, to make us fight cheerfully: but
Where our scenes seem to live. I do beseech you
Well, let them practise and converse with spirits:
will change; 'twas wont to hold me but while one
Rode on his tide. Go tell him this, and add,
To lengthen out the worst that must be spoken:
O, could our mourning ease thy misery!
The devil take thy soul!
The proudest he that holds up Lancaster,
And therefore apt, because quick.
Venetia, Venetia,
Though other things grow fair against the sun,
O Lord, I must laugh!
I pray you, sir,
Counterfeit, I assure you.
And did avoid a puttock.
Her height, forsooth, she hath prevail'd with him.
Therefore, my lord,--
wicked. I must give over this life, and I will give
O, let those cities that of plenty's cup
To those of mine!
'Tis death for any one in Mantua
And interchanged love-tokens with my child:
Nor her, nor thee, nor any of thy stock:
letter! Abhorred villain! Unnatural, detested,
there; and yet it will no more but abide.
And show the best of our delights:
Where the infectious pestilence did reign,
The Jew shall have all justice; soft! no haste:
old a head. I leave him to your gracious
To see how fortune is disposed to us;
And rouse from sleep that fell anatomy
That makes me see, and cannot feed mine eye?
I am compared to twenty thousand fairs.
It blesseth him that gives and him that takes:
Not in the power on't: so our leader's led,
If you will marry, make your loves to me,
Horns within
through the town to Frogmore.
Of years, of country, credit, every thing,
Exeunt
imposition: oft got without merit, and lost without
Small have continual plodders ever won
another. This making Christians will raise the
And after slew herself.
Which with experimental seal doth warrant
You boggle shrewdly, every feather stars you.
My countryman,--a Roman by a Roman
Christian and heathen, must be be-lee'd and calm'd
To be in anger is impiety;
And darest not stand, nor look me in the face.
Come, bring her away.
Dream on thy cousins smother'd in the Tower:
A whispering tale in a fair lady's ear,
I threaten'd to discover him: he replied,
Boy, I do love that country girl that I took in the
Then lead me hence; with whom I leave my curse:
meaning, 'resolutely:' his meaning is good.
His word was still,--Fie, foh, and fum,
Philip of France, in right and true behalf
Shall dizzy with more clamour Neptune's ear
Enter the Senators from TIMON
And raze their faction and their family,
Such as I love; and you, among the store,
Weary se'nnights nine times nine
What should we say, my lord?
And I accept the combat willingly.
My Lord Pandarus,--
The ladies did change favours: and then we,
'Pless my soul, how full of chollors I am, and
'Twere well for Kate and better for myself.
But all's not done; yet keep the French the field.
A man may break a word with you, sir, and words are but wind,
other hour, I should derive much from't; for,
Enter PISANIO, with a letter
English condition. Fare ye well.
Re-enter FALSTAFF
And fight maliciously: for when mine hours
Given to captivity me and my utmost hopes,
her music o' mornings; they say it will penetrate.
You told how Diomed, a whole week by days,
Demurely wake the sleepers. Let us bear him
Which never were nor no man ever saw.
Hearing that you prepared for war, acquainted
I wake before the time that Romeo
Here on this grass-plot, in this very place,
Shall be, and make new nations: he shall flourish,
I'll tell the news. Here comes the general.
There be some such, no question.
Let him fear this, for it will come to pass
That thee may furnish and my prayers pluck down,
look ill, Timon. Here's that which is too weak to
Do any thing but this thou doest. Empty
They say the French count has done most honourable service.
Who servest thou under?
To who, my lord? Who hath the office? send
Appear'd to me, with other spritely shows
Who doth ambition shun
Thou art a fool to bid me farewell twice.
think, being too strong for him, though he took
I will devise a death as cruel for thee
But still remember what the Lord hath done.
No, madam, these are no venereal signs:
Is ruminated, plotted and set down,
How can it be?
I would have been a breakfast to the beast,
Now that their souls are topful of offence.
He is prepared, and reason too he should:
Well done! avoid; no more!
And do such bitter business as the day
And break my utterance, even in the time
what monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go,
Fire that's closest kept burns most of all.
gods! O fine villain! A silken doublet! a velvet
Open your gates. Come, uncle Exeter,
Until my mis-shaped trunk that bears this head
Those many had not dared to do that evil,
Go your ways, and ask of Doctor Caius' house which
That none of you may live your natural age,
Beseech your highness, call the queen again.
A lad of life, an imp of fame;
And be in eye of every exercise
Who died within the year of our redemption
Of a despised life closed in my breast
Therefore we'll have some half a dozen friends,
He water'd his new plants with dews of flattery,
Are in the field: a mighty strength they carry.
Tell him he shall not speak with me.
That hath dishonour'd Gloucester's honest name.
Success or loss, what is or is not, serves
rather, the prophecy like the parrot, 'beware the
And if thou dost not hide thee from the bear,
A king, woe's slave, shall kingly woe obey.
Time, thou anticipatest my dread exploits:
Enter a Groom of the Stable
Captain Fluellen!
My lords, you know, as know the mightful gods,
[Aside]  I think I shall drink in pipe wine first
This bald unjointed chat of his, my lord,
Now fair befal thee and thy noble house!
I am sorry for thee:
As banks of Libya,--though, Apollo knows,
Before you punish him, where he heard this,
Enter EDWARD and RICHARD
Held in contempt; whilst many fair promotions
When I shall see this gentleman, thy speeches
We will ourself in person to this war:
And madly play with my forefather's joints?
presently call the rest of the watch together and
As wit and fortune will.
That we have had no time to move our daughter:
E'en a crow o' the same nest; not altogether so
Exeunt PETRUCHIO and GRUMIO
If you are arm'd to do as sworn to do,
That stand 'twixt me and Milan, candied be they
Enter LEWIS and his train
Shall lose me. What! in a town of war,
I hope you will not mock me with a husband.
Enter Old GOBBO, with a basket
written, that the shoemaker should meddle with his
Of his own chamber and used their very daggers,
And on the ragged stones beat forth our brains,
The red wine first must rise
Which in the time of death he gave our father.
Must be provided for: and you shall put
Strike a free march to Troy! with comfort go:
down by lawful counsel, and straight away for
Presenteth them unto the gazing moon
And quench the fire, the room is grown too hot.
Of his true titles to some certain dukedoms
And every godfather can give a name.
When weeping made you break the story off,
Be measured or confined.
Worth six on him.
hath not the gout, for the one sleeps easily because
I do beseech you, good my lords, keep on;
This woman's an easy glove, my lord; she goes off
I rest perplexed with a thousand cares.
further afoot, I shall break my wind. Well, I doubt
Enter FORD, PAGE, DOCTOR CAIUS, and SIR HUGH EVANS
So bravely done, so rich, that it did strive
No elder than a boy!
conclude he is in love.
If is, my liege; and all things are in readiness.
Which of the two was daughter of the duke
Will quicken, and accuse thee: I am your host:
And munch'd, and munch'd, and munch'd:--
I will try thee. Tell me this: who begot thee?
Disguised like Muscovites, in shapeless gear;
Applying another asp to her arm
Do you not know me, father?
Great thing of us forgot!
Change you, madam?
That ever penury, in contempt of man,
And hast thou kill'd him sleeping? O brave touch!
Will raise your highness such a mighty sum
And this the banquet she shall surfeit on;
And stalk in blood to our possession?
lord: she is never sad but when she sleeps, and
And they have seized Marina. Let her go:
have none.
This union shall do more than battery can
Marry, she says your dog was a cur, and tells you
Or banished fair England's territories,
A gallant prize? ha, cousin, is it not?
Upon whose property and most dear life
To breathe the abundant dolour of the heart.
Well, God give thee the spirit of persuasion and him
Pirates may make cheap pennyworths of their pillage
Bid Nestor bring me spices, ink and paper,
Hail, all you state of Greece! what shall be done
Nothing more dear to me. You are abused
Truly, young gentlemen, though there was no great
dispatch us here under this tree, or shall we go
Good Master Brook, I desire more acquaintance of you.
And mock us with our bareness.
Consent to pay thee that I never had!
But purgatory, torture, hell itself.
Enter MARIA
Will triumph o'er my person; which I weigh not,
In delivering my son from me, I bury a second husband.
Alas the day! I never gave him cause.
You should have been respective and have kept it.
I will not fail you.
For my example.
I do not doubt thy faith;
write upon't, read it, afterwards seal it, and again
And even there, his eye being big with tears,
Exceed account; but the full sum of me
Are they inform'd of this? My breath and blood!
My lord, I am for you, though it cost me ten
Yet here's a spot.
master, lose thy service, and, in losing thy
Susan and she--God rest all Christian souls!--
Here is thy fee; arrest him, officer,
And by the hazard of the spotted die
Which do but what they should, by doing every thing
Exeunt YORK, EDWARD, EDMUND, GEORGE, RICHARD,  WARWICK, NORFOLK, MONTAGUE, their Soldiers, and Attendants
They fight again
it did not speak before. All solemn things
He's the devil.
God keep the prince from all the pack of you!
Not measuring what use we made of them.
For I am that way going to temptation,
The fellow is distract, and so am I;
Who quickly fell before him: in which hurtling
To ally my rages and revenges with
Have empty left their orbs, and shot their fires
Well, I will lock his counsel in my breast;
He's bound unto Octavia.
Ay, that I do; and have done any time these three
For now he firmly takes me for Revenge;
Why stay we now? These soldiers shall be levied,
Made to run even upon even ground,
That we may know the traitors and the truth!
Thursday is near; lay hand on heart, advise:
Exeunt, severally
O king Stephano!
I am glad I was up so late; for that's the reason I
So long could I
Our bosom interest: go pronounce his present death,
He that has the two fair daughters: is't he you mean?
Well then, I pray, your price o' the consulship?
The queen is put in anger. You're excused:
In our dear peril.
Lob down their heads, dropping the hides and hips,
Plantagenet shall speak first: hear him, lords;
One: tell.
Exeunt
For one commanding all, obey'd of none.
What's the disease he means?
'Twas I won the wager, though you hit the white;
Unto a mad-brain rudesby full of spleen;
'Tis only title thou disdain'st in her, the which
Reads
To the extreme edge of hazard.
O, there has been much throwing about of brains.
Kindness in women, not their beauteous looks,
And practise rhetoric in your common talk;
I had other things to have spoken with her too from
Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows;
Is, like a blasted sapling, wither'd up:
Henry the Fourth, grandfather to this king,
ANTIPHOLUS
Which is so plain that Exeter doth wish
Not half an hour before.
He is not, nor we have not heard from him.
cudgelled; and I think the issue will be, I shall
Sink in apple of his eye.
ACT II
O you immortal gods! I will not go.
Disguise us at my lodging and return,
Enter OLIVIA
Their preparation is to-day by sea;
Through whom the gods have shown their power; that can
Whiles hounds and horns and sweet melodious birds
And full of purpose.
I am scarce in breath, my lord.
Not only take away, but let your sentence
fourth, the Reproof Valiant; the fifth, the
as a doornail, I pray God I may never eat grass more.
In spending your wit in the praise of mine.
Not a mouse stirring.
It was a crest ere thou wast born:
The death of Cassio to be undertook
and the parent; death, dearth, dissolutions of
With hard bright steel and hearts harder than steel.
Where you may abide till your date expire.
Drowns him, and takes his valour prisoner:
Some run from brakes of ice, and answer none:
You beg a single penny more: come, you shall ha't;
Disgracing of these colours that I wear
Pardon me, sir, this jewel did she wear;
No, Warwick, no; while life upholds this arm,
Hail, King of Scotland!
And die with grieving.
Villain, forbear.
of ill opinions, here's the twin-brother of thy
should be hanged and carved upon these trees?
to my mother, your mistress, and make much of her.
Why, I have not another tear to shed:
Heaven forgive him too!
I will cut thy throat, one time or other, in fair
But how he died God knows, not Henry:
SCENE IV. A room in ANGELO's house.
Ourself the merchant, and this sailing Pandar
A crew of patches, rude mechanicals,
And when I have the bloody Hector found,
O, wert thou for myself! But, Suffolk, stay;
With one that I have bred? The gods! it smites me
Our blood to us, this to our blood is born;
My death's sad tale may yet undeaf his ear.
Makes me the better to confer with thee.
What, are you mad? I charge you, get you home.
Than this is all as true as it is strange:
By taking nor by giving of excess,
And now, instead of bullets wrapp'd in fire,
When for so slight and frivolous a cause
In my rights,
We must prepare to meet with Caliban.
matter merrily set down, or a very pleasant thing
Thanks, my good lord chamberlain.
I have this present evening from my sister
God knows thou art a collop of my flesh;
Believe me, sir, they butt together well.
For which you are a traitor to the people.
But like to groves, being topp'd, they higher rise.
Why, what a pox have I to do with my hostess of the tavern?
Come, go, good Juliet,
Procure me some access.
Why, how now, Claudio! whence comes this restraint?
On whom depending, their obedience fails
I doubt not but to ride as fast as York:
Now is Mortimer lord of this city. And here, sitting
Sir John Falstaff.
When he would play the noble beast in love.
The native mightiness and fate of him.
Had you a healthful ear to hear of it.
A thought of added honour torn from Hector.
Rosalind: if I could meet that fancy-monger I would
Be closed in our household's monument.
Rich garments, linens, stuffs and necessaries,
Did sometimes march? by heaven I charge thee, speak!
To-morrow! O, that's sudden! Spare him, spare him!
After the slaughter of so many peers,
But you will take exceptions to my boon.
Ay, to a niggardly host, and more sparing guest:
Have in thy reverence made!
My lord, I would that Thursday were to-morrow.
Were nothing but to waste night, day and time.
To KING LEWIS XI
My lord and master.
who, for aught I know,
By this hand, I am. Good fool, some ink, paper and
Let him not seek 't of us: by day and night,
Thou unsubstantial air that I embrace!
Snakes, in my heart-blood warm'd, that sting my heart!
What colour are your eyebrows?
Nay, you need not fear us, Lorenzo: Launcelot and I
Even as my life, or blood that fosters it.
Yea.
name; I have done.
My tongue hath wrong'd him: if it do him right,
O master, if you did but hear the pedlar at the
My good lord--
I know thee well: a serviceable villain;
Enter Troilus's Boy
of ambition, an envious emulator of every man's
To a hair.
Nor do we find him forward to be sounded,
Complain unto the duke of this indignity.
And let them grapple: O, the blood more stirs
And think we think ourselves unsatisfied,
By the imprisoning of unruly wind
I would do more than that, if more were needful.
Enter ABHORSON
I have not been desirous of their wealth,
It made me laugh to see the villain run.
Grating so harshly all his days of quiet
What you will have, I'll give, and willing too;
Droop not; adieu. Farewell, my wife, my mother:
Gracious my lord,
tameness, civility and patience, to this his
No, my lord.
Sweet soul, take heed,
And yet I was last chidden for being too slow.
Bear from hence his body;
To do what service am I sent for hither?
Unhappy were you, madam, ere I came;
Where is this fellow?
Lead our first battle: worthy Macduff and we
Hath he said any thing?
Was Caius Lucius in the Britain court
Enter SIR ANDREW
Call all his noble captains to my lord.
sing. Come, more; another stanzo: call you 'em stanzos?
The tiger now hath seized the gentle hind;
My liege, his railing is intolerable:
Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
First pay me for the nursing of thy sons;
In the state of honourable marriage:
To give me audience: if the midnight bell
To hold thine own and leave thine own with him.
Then let my father's blood open it again:
to question them further, they made themselves air,
Draws
The rabble should have first unroof'd the city,
And with no face, as 'twere, outfacing me,
In noble eminence enthroned and sphered
Enter CAPULET, LADY CAPULET, and others
I should report that which I say I saw,
Give me excess of it, that, surfeiting,
My lord, I cannot be so soon provided:
As praises, of whose taste the wise are fond,
Than dangerous to me: to Aufidius thus
Well, I perceive I must be fain to bear with you.
How does my old acquaintance of this isle?
Say to Ventidius I would speak with him:
will give me occasion.
Who then conceiving did in eaning time
They withdraw into the tent
Good night, good night! as sweet repose and rest
Gave Hector a gift,--
He ask'd me for a thousand marks in gold:
Shall rain their drift of bullets on this town.
Of hair-breadth scapes i' the imminent deadly breach,
I thank you, sir.
It is the bloody business which informs
In honour of my noble Lord of York:
make noise enough.
Thou rather with thy sharp and sulphurous bolt
Enter a Citizen
As she that he hath stain'd?
To meet with joy in sweet Jerusalem.
You go not till I set you up a glass
This is above all strangeness.
Hanging and wiving goes by destiny.
fain have either.
therefore never flout at me for what I have said
What is't that you took up so gingerly?
Come back, fool; this is the Duke of Suffolk, and
And we of thee: so if the time thrust forth
Lord Strange of Blackmere, Lord Verdun of Alton,
These lovers cry Oh! oh! they die!
[Aside]  I know not what to say; my title's weak.--
Who shall reward you better for my life
Such to-be-pitied and o'er-wrested seeming
facit monachum; that's as much to say as I wear not
of a lime-kiln.
To leave no rubs nor botches in the work--
To live an unstain'd wife to my sweet love.
Never pray more; abandon all remorse;
Died he not in his bed? where should he die?
Regard thy danger, and along with me!
Once more, my Lord of Winchester, I charge you,
think my brother happy in having what he wishes for.
In limited professions. Rascal thieves,
A beast, as thou art. The canker gnaw thy heart,
a pen, and a' babbled of green fields. 'How now,
Age is unnecessary: on my knees I beg
Ay, but these rags are no part of the duke:
Sir John, you are so fretful, you cannot live long.
With me in your company?
To be his groom: thou wert dignified enough,
And that I did deny my wife and house.
Trust none;
God grant that some, less noble and less loyal,
But none of us cared for Kate;
cousin: I must say she is dead: and so, farewell.
And burn him with their tapers.
All! I know not what you call all; but if I fought
Here I disclaim all my paternal care,
He had need mean better than his outward show
Let him receive no sustenance, fetter him
For thy mistaking so, we pardon thee.
Bring them to our embracement. Still, 'tis strange
Enter PAROLLES guarded, and First Soldier
Tapster; a poor widow's tapster.
To let me see them and to make me know
Climb o'er the house to unlock the little gate.
Give me my veil: come, throw it o'er my face.
Not being torn a-pieces, we have done:
Methinks your maw, like mine, should be your clock,
The life o' the building!
To make some good, but others to exceed;
Make not, sir,
Thy better must.
And then it lived in sweet Elysium.
Seal'd up the doors, and would not let us forth;
Ay;
To alter favour ever is to fear:
Our revels now are ended. These our actors,
transgressed against his valour; and my state that
But flies an eagle flight, bold and forth on,
This was the noblest Roman of them all:
Why will you suffer her to flout me thus?
Henry the Eighth, life, honour, name and all
the ribs bare. But, sirrah, make haste: Percy is
Swell'st thou, proud heart? I'll give thee scope to beat,
Let's, mock them still, as well known as disguised:
Mark'd by the destinies to be avoided,
As, in their birth--wherein they are not guilty,
There is, there is.
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, ROSENCRANTZ, GUILDENSTERN, and Attendants
Exit
Unreverent Gloster!
To make room for him in my husband's bed:
In Ireland have I seen this stubborn Cade
a cudgel; and yet my mind gave me his clothes made a
I know the boy will well usurp the grace,
So you were a knave at his service, indeed.
To trust man on his oath or bond;
Thou knowest not what it is.
Whiles yet the cool and temperate wind of grace
The people are the city.
So thou wilt send thy gentle heart before,
Do you hear, my mad wenches?
And nature, as it grows again toward earth,
He dies for Claudio's death.
Enter MARK ANTONY and CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, and others attending
'Tis a very excellent piece of work, madam lady:
one, I hope I shall not be flayed out of it.
withered pears, it looks ill, it eats drily; marry,
Most mighty sovereign,
That appertain unto a burial.
And of our Athens, thine and ours, to take
If thou hadst hands to help thee knit the cord.
Three times to-day I holp him to his horse,
And betimes I will, to the weird sisters:
Behold their quarter'd fires, have both their eyes
The eating canker dwells, so eating love
Not sound?
A proper man.
Unfurnish'd of her well-beseeming troop?
And had intent to murder him;
What?
We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes
Both
I would not thy good deeds should from my lips
DON
Your nephew, late despised Richard, comes.
Sparing would show a worse sin than ill doctrine:
carelessly,
Some tender money to me; some invite me;
Flourish. Exeunt
Enter GOWER
The noblest mind he carries
You have no judgment, niece: Helen
What are we, Apemantus?
That 'banished,' that one word 'banished,'
I will be master of what is mine own:
In filial obligation for some term
plucked yet, I can assure you.
Puffing at all, winnows the light away;
What of him?
With all his might
Enter TITUS, MARCUS, LAVINIA and Young LUCIUS, a boy
And say 'Tis true,' I'ld not believe them more
And mine, to eke out hers.
Rowland de Boys; he was my father, and he is thrice
With foul and violent tempest.
Come, come, no longer will I be a fool,
Why, sir, I know her not.
Encourage him, and show him all our reasons:
Killing swine.
Of trotting 'paritors:--O my little heart:--
Re-enter ORLANDO, with ADAM
O monstrous! but one half-penny-worth of bread to
And so, farewell, for I must hence again.
give her two.
The clock struck nine when I did send the nurse;
Will to my sense bend no licentious ear,
Push! did you see my cap?
That, swoopstake, you will draw both friend and foe,
I can bear my part; you must know 'tis my
Drive you to break your necks or hang yourselves!
But is it true? or else is it your pleasure,
Like madness is the glory of this life.
As soldiers can. Be cheerful; wipe thine eyes
Thus have I politicly begun my reign,
I nightly lodge her in an upper tower,
At mine, sir, and theirs that love music.
By God, he shall not have a Scot of them;
In this our fabric, if that they--
Where is he?
not to be recovered.
Didst thou? Lord, Lord, how this world is given to
Come not before him.
Lucentio, you shall supply the bridegroom's place:
O monstrous fault, to harbour such a thought!
Nor from the state nor private friends, hereafter
Show me the place:
Do bravely, horse! for wot'st thou whom thou movest?
talk is most tolerable and not to be endured.
And, for my sake, stay here with Antony:
Fear you not him. Sirrah Biondello,
Which were the greatest obloquy i' the world
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY VI, CLARENCE, WARWICK,  SOMERSET, HENRY OF RICHMOND, OXFORD, MONTAGUE, and Lieutenant of the Tower
'Come on, you cowards! you were got in fear,
And take deep traitors for thy dearest friends!
Inspire me, that I may this treason find!
Whether aught, to us unknown, afflicts him thus,
Is my kinsman, whom the king hath wrong'd,
With bleared visages, come forth to view
This evening, on the east side of the grove.
Who respects friend?
Attends he here, or no? Lucilius!
To make an envious mountain on my back,
Of those that claim their offices this day
If not most mortal to him. But, let it come.
[Aside]  This is a piece of malice. I am glad
Exit
Thou wear a lion's hide! doff it for shame,
On Thursday, sir? the time is very short.
And thou a natural coward, without instinct.
But I hope your lordship thinks not him a soldier.
Cursed be the hand that made these fatal holes!
The thoughts of others! Pray you, tell me this;
Antiquity forgot, custom not known,
Pindarus,
so honourable a grave as to stuff a botcher's
The Duke of Suffolk?
Hold out my horse, and I will first be there.
Give up your staff, sir, and the king his realm.
degree of a squire.
Command upon me; to the which my duties
To EMILIA
Get me some poison, Iago; this night: I'll not
Why, man, why?
We shill employ thee in a worthier place.
Thy sheep shall take no harm.
The former Hero! Hero that is dead!
It is an office of the gods to venge it,
And, by that fatherly and kindly power
Sir, he's a good dog, and a fair dog: can there be
excellent canopy, the air, look you, this brave
Which I could with a ready guess declare,
May draw with you: there's millions now alive
Whose being I do fear: and, under him,
Come, sirs, convey me to the block of shame;
What, amazed
not warily, fall into foul bogs. I had rather have
Ring the alarum-bell! Blow, wind! come, wrack!
And, from that full meridian of my glory,
Not able to endure the sight of day,
Upon the talk of the poisoning?
And was embark'd to cross to Burgundy;
The basin that receives your guilty blood.
And then his banishment.
Exeunt
For I have ever verified my friends,
And that is false thou dost report to us.
Here stand a pair of honourable men;
That to their everlasting residence,
Upon Saint Davy's day.
'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves;'
What news abroad?
His bloody brow! O Jupiter, no blood!
My lord is dead; Edmund and I have talk'd;
Doth lay it open to urge on revenge.
England, for itself.
Should with a bond of air, strong as the axle-tree
Have they been merry! which their keepers call
Upon some stubborn and uncourteous parts
Your grace has given a precedent of wisdom
That he you hurt is of great fame in Cyprus,
When I have show'd the unfitness,--
service is seldom attributed to the true and exact
Is full of weeds, her fairest flowers choked up,
And am so near the lack of charity--
You're welcome: what's your will?
if not, I would it were.
Come on; tune: if you can penetrate her with your
blessed!--any hurt in the world; but keeps the
See him deliver'd, Fabian; bring him hither.
Who can arraign me for't.
Where's Richard gone?
Or any creeping venom'd thing that lives!
As it shall follow in my correction: and God defend
By false intelligence, or wrong surmise,
This proves me base:
I see the jewel best enamelled
However it is spread in general name,
Which bewept to the grave did go
think the Frenchman became his surety and sealed
With wrinkled brows, with nods, with rolling eyes.
In every branch truly demonstrative;
No better than the earth he lies upon,
I will believe you by the syllable
Forget your oath to us at Doncaster;
That, after this strange starting from your orbs,
Thou hast a cruel nature and a bloody.
Shall braying trumpets and loud churlish drums,
Lorenzo and Salerio, welcome hither;
Take not away the taper, leave it burning;
swear he loves me.
I may not go without you to the kings.
stark spoiled with the staggers, begnawn with the
it agrees well, passant; it is a familiar beast to
You gods, reward them!
Hear but my name, and tremble.
Meetest for death: the weakest kind of fruit
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse with his rapier drawn, and DROMIO of Syracuse
That temple, thy fair mind, that thou mayst stand,
thy mother!' then asks Bohemia forgiveness; then
Is by your fancy's thankful doom.
which of my bad parts didst thou first fall in love with me?
Should, notwithstanding that your bond of duty,
Armado o' th' one side,--O, a most dainty man!
That I will work against him: therefore your oaths
Because you bought them: shall I say to you,
Exeunt all but BASTARD
I swear 'tis better to be much abused
Art thou gone too? all comfort go with thee!
So many guests invite as here are writ.
I am yours,
Although the victor, we submit to Caesar,
Your affairs there, what, with whom, the condition
That set'st the word itself against the word!
No, but there's a woman with maid by him. You have
My bosom franchised and allegiance clear,
To be called into a huge sphere, and not to be seen
'Alack, why does he so?'
She was too good for me: but, as I said,
Nay, that's true, that's very true. Go, Tubal, fee
Although not valued to the money's worth.
I warrant your honour.
A gentleman.
I saw her hand: she has a leathern hand.
Or if that surly spirit, melancholy,
I can o'ersway him; for he loves to hear
ears grew to his tunes.
Like monsters of the deep.
Hear me a little;
Writ o' both sides the leaf, margent and all,
Besides, if things go well,
Who play they to?
Not I, sir; pray you, keep on.
How goes the world, sir, now?
And that which looks like pride is courtesy.
But since your falsehood shall become you well
has left with thee: if this be a horseman's coat,
In private will I talk with thee apart.
Mass, I cannot tell.
My tongue to such a pace:--'Look, sir, my wounds!
So children temporal fathers do appease;
You shall, sir: did you not of late days hear
Why, now is Henry king, and Margaret queen;
Speak to the people, and they pity her.
Sit,--and some wine! A health to Lepidus!
Derived from Edward, his great-grandfather.
Music plays, and they dance
'Twixt this and supper: go not my horse the better,
The sin of my ingratitude even now
Who calls?
The other moiety, ere you ask, is given;
The duty that I owe unto your majesty
Of all say'd yet, I wish thee happiness!
Re-enter two of the Citizens
O, that that earth, which kept the world in awe,
fiends have been in poor Tom at once; of lust, as
Exit
I have heard
Please you, read;
And be it moon, or sun, or what you please:
Pinion him like a thief, bring him before us.
We'll ha't to-morrow night. You could, for a need,
Yes.
Thou Fortune's champion that dost never fight
To bloody battles and to bruising arms.
ANTIPHOLUS
ANTIPHOLUS
O, but I love his lady too too much,
No more, gentlemen, no more:--here comes my father.
Of easy ways to die. Take up her bed;
Because not there: this woman's answer sorts,
For taking so the head, your whole head's length.
Enter REGAN and OSWALD
myself, these gentlemen can witness! but I would
About his title, and hath sent for you
Exeunt
That I should yet absent me from your bed:
From what we fear, yet know not what we fear,
Ay, God Almighty help me!
We waste our lights in vain, like lamps by day.
When he has run his course and sleeps in blessings,
Brutus is ta'en, Brutus is ta'en, my lord.
A burning torch that's turned upside down;
And wander'd hither to an obscure plot,
When our most learned doctors leave us and
If ever thou wilt thrive, bury my body;
Is't possible the spells of France should juggle
His will is most malignant; and it stretches
Come now; what masques, what dances shall we have,
his treading: he is able to pierce a corslet with
I will repeal thee, or, be well assured,
How now! what's the matter?
Yes, and shall do till the pangs of death shake him:
religiously; and, as a certain father saith,--
'Fair sir, you spit on me on Wednesday last;
The fingers of the powers above do tune
Or to be naked with her friend in bed
That thou, my brother, my competitor
Tis now the very witching time of night,
Farewell. Come hither to me.
air; and, as I am a gentleman, betook myself to
By my sweet soul, I mean setting thee at liberty,
Descended of so many royal kings.
Minime, honest master; or rather, master, no.
ACT III
From Hamlet! who brought them?
God bless thee, lady!
Thou art poor'st of all; then shortly art thou mine.
To wake Northumberland and warlike Siward:
you are asked this question next, say 'a
To-night in Harfleur we will be your guest;
I'll fetch my sister, to get her good will.
If Proteus like your journey when you come,
O, my good lord, why are you thus alone?
caduceus, if ye take not that little, little less
'The riot of the tipsy Bacchanals,
Was born of woman.
Why, wilt thou tourney for the lady?
His grief grew puissant and the strings of life
Come not near him. If thou wouldst not reside
From Ireland thus comes York to claim his right,
Within the earth; and, therein laid,--there lies
Mine interest and his honour, or have charged him,
That it may enter Mowbray's waxen coat,
That he did stay?
Where the Norweyan banners flout the sky
SCENE III. Florence. Before the DUKE's palace.
your lordship.
[Awaking]  Yes, sir, to Milford-Haven; which is
Of nature's sale-work. 'Od's my little life,
Than honesty to honesty engaged,
Sea-sick, I think, coming from Muscovy.
What is he that shall buy his flock and pasture?
Sir John hangs with me, and thou knowest he is no
In Normandy, saw I this Longaville:
Nay, but do so, then: and, look you, he may come and
I pry'd me through the crevice of a wall
warrant. Why, this hits right; I dreamt of a silver
Is longer than the tale thou dost excuse.
The subject will deserve it. Such as give
Wherefore's this noise?
And when they show'd me this abhorred pit,
For in my gallery thy picture hangs:
We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
Now for our mountain sport: up to yond hill;
And let my spleenful sons this trull deflow'r.
The common voice do cry it shall be so.
Enter CLARENCE and SOMERSET
For it is, as the air, invulnerable,
Be friends, you English fools, be friends: we have
And virtue stoops and trembles at her frown.
Some to the wars, to try their fortune there;
Would you had hit it too!
I'll bring mine action on the proudest he
if there is any martial law in the world.
Your highness, lately sending into France,
Dost disobey the wife of Jupiter;
Array'd in flames like to the prince of fiends,
A pair of tribunes that have rack'd for Rome,
Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
I cry you mercy, madam; was it you?
Or, if not so, until the sun be set:
Nature seems dead, and wicked dreams abuse
Achilles, Ajax, who wears his wit in his belly and
only peacemaker; much virtue in If.
As thou hast done with me:--What, Jessica!--
And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
Should lose his birthright by his father's fault,
Bring forth the parties of suspicion.
March to assault thy country than to tread--
They lead him out forcibly
your letter.
Lest my brain turn, and the deficient sight
No matter who's displeased when you are gone:
Ay, millstones; as be lesson'd us to weep.
For Warwick is a subtle orator,
More than their own! What then? how then?
It plucks out brains and all: but my Muse labours,
I am content that he shall take the odds
Help, Lucius, help!
In opposition bloody. I cannot speak
And, yet brought forth less than a mother's hope,
There be moe wasps that buzz about his nose
Gentle Master Fenton,
Judas I am,--
But dreadful war shall answer his demand.
Where is my lady's lord, where's Romeo?
himself stuck not to call us the many-headed multitude.
Less valiant than the virgin in the night
May stand more proper, my eye shall be the stream
All these well furnish'd by the Duke of Bretagne
Why look you so upon me?
Any toys for your head,
I do estate unto Demetrius.
Upon the which, that every one may read,
He came but to be Duke of Lancaster,
Augustus lives to think on't: and so much
That the bruised heart was pierced through the ear.
She is protectress of her honour too:
Go in: and tell my lady I am gone,
I pray the gods she may with all my heart!
Lest Rome herself be bane unto herself,
Indeed, they are disproportion'd;
No princely commendations to my king?
him by the year, and let him abide here with you; if
That yon green boy shall have no sun to ripe
Exeunt
With raven's feather from unwholesome fen
Of the unguarded hearts, heavens, how they wound!
and plenteous wit and invention:--
That cannot be; since I am still possess'd
Stephano! If thou beest Stephano, touch me and
Take thou my soldiers, prisoners, patrimony;
Three times did Richard make a lane to me.
Been less, and so more equal ballasting
And say what thou seest yond.
That lie shall lie so heavy on my sword,
but friends,
Enter GLOUCESTER, BEDFORD, EXETER, ERPINGHAM, with all his host: SALISBURY and WESTMORELAND
his spurs so long. How does he carry himself?
Yet blessing on his heart that gives it me!
Look you, here comes my mistress' page.
'Thine evermore most dear lady, whilst
The moon shines fair; you may away by night:
Shame and confusion! all is on the rout;
is imperial: England shall repent his folly, see
Now, out of doubt Antipholus is mad,
Be you my time to bring it to some shape.
Maine, Blois, Poictiers, and Tours, are won away,
In common sense, sense saves another way.
For there is none of you so mean and base,
Enter GLOUCESTER and BUCKINGHAM, in rotten armour, marvellous ill-favoured
Fear me not.
sport to the upshot. Come by and by to my chamber.
I know that virtue to be in you, Brutus,
Without eyes, ears and harmful sound of words;
What think'st thou? is it not an easy matter
myself, that I was the prince's jester, that I was
now with the doctor at the deanery, and there married.
Hidest thou that forehead with a golden crown,
Touches me deeper than you can imagine.
you farewell.
What dish o' poison has she dressed him!
Most heathenish and most gross!
As I do think, to-morrow.
have not called up her steward Malvolio and bid him
To after-eye him.
That reason wonder may diminish,
I come to pierce it, or to give thee mine.
If I do not usurp myself, I am.
Call hither Barnardine and Claudio:
would kiss as many of you as had beards that pleased
If it be true that I interpret false,
Away with them to prison; and the day of combat
Or else it stood upon the choice of friends,--
Let it be granted you have seen all this--and praise
Like a ripe sister: the woman low
I know thy constellation is right apt
As to rejoice at friends but newly found.
Is dear Lavinia, dearer than my soul.
a plague upon it when thieves cannot be true one to another!
But this same Cassio, though he speak of comfort
Which was so strongly urged past my defence.
To see some mischief on him. O!
have discredited your travel.
Patience perforce with wilful choler meeting
How chance the king comes with so small a train?
Exeunt
Madam, I am protector of the realm;
the streets,
Whom I left cooling of the air with sighs
I set him there, sir: but his own disorders
As bright as is the eagle's, lightens forth
A distance from her; while her grace sat down
her father be very rich, any man is so very a fool
of France: O heavens! that this treason were not,
Sings
Not when I saw't.
If I in act, consent, or sin of thought,
Prithee, say.
no staying. In despite of the devils and hell, have
But yet 'tis one.
given to virtue, I would swear by thy face; my oath
Within Corioli gates: where he hath won,
I'll either make thee stoop and bend thy knee,
I beseech you, be not so phlegmatic. Hear the truth
Fare ye well at once: my bosom is full of kindness,
When I have walked like a private man,
Indeed, it does stink in some sort, sir; but yet,
Would come against you.
For I spake to you for your comfort; did desire you
SCENE III. A hall in the castle.
To tell them that this world did equal theirs
'Tis but a man gone. Forth, my sword: he dies.
extended more than can be thought to begin from such a cottage.
The fraud of men was ever so,
was guilty of.
And so is now, or was so very late;
Lest I surcease to honour mine own truth
I, that am rudely stamp'd, and want love's majesty
You perceive my mind?
Humbly call'd mistress.
The violation of my faith; and then
true,--or thereabouts, set down, for I'll speak truth.
appoint him a meeting; give him a show of comfort in
I cannot but be sad; so heavy sad
Than secret Romans, that have spoke the word,
Consisting equally of horse and foot;
Some light-foot friend post to the Duke of Norfolk:
Towards Phoebus' lodging: such a wagoner
Since his addiction was to courses vain,
I was so unfortunate a beggar.
Bequeath to death your numbness, for from him
Sufficeth not that we are brought to Rome,
Should have ta'en vengeance on my faults, I never
How? the best?
makes these hard hearts?
Alack, let it blood.
It does from childishness: can Fulvia die?
That spirit upon whose weal depend and rest
Nay, sure, he's not in hell: he's in Arthur's
the physician: the most sovereign prescription in
Then I'll commend her volubility,
Employ'd you where high profits might come home,
prayers are he may, let me desire you to make your
Nor is't directly laid to thee, the death
And to your heirs for ever, common pleasures,
thought he would.
fire: and his lips blows at his nose, and it is like
It were a shame to let this land by lease;
And, like a gallant in the brow of youth,
Than what I fear; for always I am Caesar.
Without some pleasure now. What sport tonight?
forward to-night.
My waned state for Henry's regal crown.
Both from thy table, Henry, and thy bed,
A prize, a prize, a prize!
To grace in captive bonds his chariot-wheels?
My life, sir! how, I pray? for that goes hard.
I see a woman may be made a fool,
If you shall send them word you will not come,
By my troth, the fool has an excellent breast. I
The hour that fools should ask.
Advise thee, Aaron, what is to be done,
I fear me, he will scarce be pleased withal.
We come to use our hands and not our tongues.
Paint till a horse may mire upon your face,
To kiss the ground before young Malcolm's feet,
Now, sir, come on: what was done to Elbow's wife, once more?
Go, go, dispatch.
Not so, not so; his life is parallel'd
mines? have the pioneers given o'er?
Commends his good opinion of you, and
In the very end of harvest!
And those occasions, uncle, were of force:
Exeunt
Hazard so dangerous as doth hourly grow
If thou wert my fool, nuncle, I'ld have thee beaten
He said the truth: and what said Surrey then?
Ay, that the king is dead.
Caius Ligarius, that Metellus spake of.
The tender love I bear your grace, my lord,
Which by thy younger brother is supplied,
I never knew
The watery kingdom, whose ambitious head
I am the Douglas, fatal to all those
Are not the question here.
Hostility and civil tumult reigns
Achilles! a drayman, a porter, a very camel.
I wish it grubb'd up now.
I will upon all hazards well believe
Quoted and sign'd to do a deed of shame,
When evils are most free? O, then by day
I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
They all shout and wave their swords, take him up in their arms, and cast up their caps
But on mine honour dare I undertake
If he be dead, brave Talbot, then adieu!
Even till we make the main and the aerial blue
Flight cannot stain the honour you have won;
[Reads]  'When as a lion's whelp shall, to himself
With sighs of love, that costs the fresh blood dear:
What do you read, my lord?
Good madam, be not angry with the child.
And our affairs from England come too late:
True, when avoided grace makes destiny:
Throw up thine eye! see, see what showers arise,
Her eyes, her hair, her cheek, her gait, her voice,
And this fair gentlewoman, her sister here,
He straight declined, droop'd, took it deeply,
See, ruthless queen, a hapless father's tears:
It is not for you: I have heard it over,
Enter WORCESTER and VERNON
More than mine own; that am, have, and will be--
I crave our composition may be written,
Once by the king, and three times thrice by thee.
His wife that's dead did trespasses to Caesar;
Beheld his tears, and laugh'd so heartily,
How long shall I be patient? ah, how long
This lady's husband here, this, do you see--
Was crown'd in Paris but at nine months old.
If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones,
Achieve the elder, set the younger free
In short time after, he deposed the king;
Unto his dastard foemen is betray'd.
What mightst thou do, that honour would thee do,
Come all to help him, and so stop the air
No, I'll not meddle.
I cannot instantly raise up the gross
And, in the end being rescued, I have seen
But when I came, alas! to wive,
Should in the furthest east begin to draw
For which the people stir: if you will pass
Were well deserved of rashness.
The native act and figure of my heart
Which, if he take, shall quite unpeople her
For, being transported by my jealousies
That vulgars give bold'st titles, ay, and privy
Wherewith you now bedew King Henry's hearse,
So are you, sweet,
Thou hast forspoke my being in these wars,
I think the Duke of Burgundy will fast
That swallow'd so much treasure, and like a glass
Do:
The fairy land buys not the child of me.
take a king. And what sayest thou then to my love?
Drives him beyond the bounds of patience.
But this is something odd.
Let me have your express opinions
Ay, if his enemy deliver it:
When your sweet self was got.
Patience awhile, you'll hear the belly's answer.
Enter the Lady Abbess, AEMILIA
With a disdainful youth: anoint his eyes;
shall after revive, be jointed to the old stock and
The speediness of your return.
And so good morrow to you every one.
I'll speak of her no more, nor of your children;
word might make my sister wanton. But indeed words
He is dead and gone;
The law hath not been dead, though it hath slept:
Whose name was once our terror, now our comfort;
Hang nothing but a calf's-skin, most sweet lout.
you now to your gossip-like humour: you break jests
Gentle my lord, turn back.
Produce his body to the market-place;
And call it cunning: do, an if you will:
Provide thee two proper palfreys, black as jet,
Our dinner done, and he not coming thither,
Lo, lo, lo, lo, what modicums of wit he utters! his
birth-day; and there are princes and knights come
Alas! this parting strikes poor lovers dumb.
Your legs did better service than your hands.
thinking, he would fain have had it. Then he
ACT IV
And yours, the noble sinews of our power,
Hang off, thou cat, thou burr! vile thing, let loose,
nor the courtier's, which is proud, nor the
Though we seemed dead, we did but sleep: advantage
This proveth Edward's love and Warwick's honesty.
Dear amity and everlasting love.
The latest of my wealth I'll share amongst you.
his rope-tricks. I'll tell you what sir, an she
How oft the sight of means to do ill deeds
And in thy face strange motions have appear'd,
dry oats. Methinks I have a great desire to a bottle
Baked and impasted with the parching streets,
Which have solicited. The rest is silence.
There is no tarrying here; the hart Achilles
Of wheat, rye, barley, vetches, oats and pease;
Here are letters for you.
may do homage: find me to marry me with Octavius
For out o' doors he went without their helps,
If the ground be overcharged, you were best stick her.
Whose misadventured piteous overthrows
treacherous device and never leave thee till he
Once more, adieu; the rest let sorrow say.
That westward rooteth from the city's side,
SCENE IX. Kenilworth Castle.
have loved the Moor. Blessed pudding! Didst thou
For me, the gold of France did not seduce;
I do not well know, my lord. If it shall please
truth, nor honesty in this bosom of thine; it is all
Breed scrupulous faction: the hated, grown to strength,
And why so?
Exit Soothsayer
opinion of his rage, skill, fury and impetuosity.
Come our lovely lady nigh;
use his master so, being perhaps, for aught I see,
That any of these bolder vices wanted
[To NERISSA]  By yonder moon I swear you do me wrong;
Seek him, bid him come hither: tell him I have
mocked me before: but come your ways.
As dissolute as desperate; yet through both
If in Naples
The images of revolt and flying off.
I could interpret between you and your love, if I
Defy the matter. How cheerest thou, Jessica?
And stand indebted, over and above,
Whom I unnaturally shall disinherit.
Go, Bushy, to the Earl of Wiltshire straight:
Should have hare-hearts, would they but fat
Knowledge the wing wherewith we fly to heaven,
Hail, you anointed deputies of heaven!
I may not, madam:
Thy crown does sear mine eye-balls. And thy hair,
you, la plus belle Katharine du monde, mon tres cher
That you shall say my cunning drift excels.
Have their round haunches gored.
And so am I for Phebe.
Oh, that deceit should steal such gentle shapes,
double gilt of this opportunity you let time wash
Who they should be that have thus many led you?
A stranger, and I not know on't!
No, indeed, master.
Were such things here as we do speak about?
Hold, hurt him not, for God's sake! he is mad.
SCENE III. Plains in Gascony.
That you would wear it till your hour of death
How does my bounteous sister? Go with me
Insolent villain!
That mightst have had the sole son of my queen!
I with great truth catch mere simplicity;
Enter Servant
This day those enemies are put to death,
Un peu, madame.
DON
If I sent him word again 'it was not well cut,' he
Your nose smells 'no' in this, most tender-smelling knight.
O, stay but till then!
Tut! our horses they shall not see: I'll tie them
Tarquin seven hurts i' the body.
I do not fear it; I have seen you both:
To point his slow unmoving finger at!
Have you sent to Bottom's house ? is he come home yet?
Tom will throw his head at them. Avaunt, you curs!
To PHEBE
Stand fast together, lest some friend of Caesar's
For England!
distance, thy montant. Is he dead, my Ethiopian? is
Moreover, urge his hateful luxury
And patient fools,
Caesar!
How now, Prince Troilus! wherefore not afield?
My sickness grows upon me.
They did amongst the troops of armed men
Make the Moor thank me, love me and reward me.
The noble house o' the Marcians, from whence came
SCENE II. Tyre. A room in the palace.
eye but such an eye would spy out such a quarrel?
maid! where's my cousin Cressid?
Wears this war's garland: in token of the which,
You shall not go, my lord.
How? thy wife?
There's matter in these sighs, these profound heaves:
His father revell'd in the heart of France,
My lord, my lord,
To be new-varnish'd! Well, but to my choice:
but with nobility and tranquillity, burgomasters and
Loved as he loves himself: even now I met him
Attorney'd at your service.
She levell'd at our purposes, and, being royal,
Till Saturninus be Rome's emperor.
Be sure you be not loose; for those you make friends
O blessed bond of board and bed!
With a nuptial knot, if thou vouchsafe to grant
Command the health of it? No, thou proud dream,
Sword, I will hollow thee for this thy deed,
Call up her father,
Reads
And, like a troop of jolly huntsmen, come
Why, so didst thou: come they of noble family?
'Twixt Guynes and Arde:
Have not the power to muzzle him; therefore best
the one maintained by the owl, the other by the
A merchant of incomparable wealth.
Soft! see how busily she turns the leaves!
It is your former promise.
AEgeon art thou not? or else his ghost?
This priest has no pride in him?
How now! what's the news with you?
'Twas from the canon.
Enter an AEdile
Contend not, sir; for we are gentlemen
What men?
Hark, how they knock! Who's there? Romeo, arise;
Sir, I will walk here in the hall: if it please his
To leave my Julia, shall I be forsworn;
Who shall tell Priam so, or Hecuba?
Take heed, ere summer comes or cuckoo-birds do sing.
SCENE V. Cymbeline's tent.
not ever sad then; for I have heard my daughter say,
And, if we meet, we shall not scape a brawl;
For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,
Say I am merry: come to me again,
A diminution in our captain's brain
To second all his plot. I do assure you
constantly thou hast stuck to the bare fortune of
with it and swear it was the blood of true men. I
Our battles join'd, and both sides fiercely fought:
won honour than in the embracements of his bed where
As thine is now, held with a brace of harlots.
Now, for I know the Breton Richmond aims
She shall be habited as it becomes
For my profession's sacred from above:
Promised to Harry and his followers.
Thou thinkest not of this now. Nay, I remember the
Either accept the title thou usurp'st,
And send them after to supply our wants;
derive me ill will to speak of; therefore I will not
And three times thrice is nine.
chamberlain; for thou variest no more from picking
better is it to weep at joy than to joy at weeping!
What I shall die to want. But this is trifling;
Madam, I have a touch of your condition,
Was this the face that faced so many follies,
And when she put it on, she made me vow
Short blister'd breeches, and those types of travel,
Here once again we sit, once again crown'd,
But if thou linger in my territories
A mock is due. Will you walk on, my lord?
Let me unkiss the oath 'twixt thee and me;
friends true and constant: a good plot, good
reason: thou seest I am pacified still. Nay,
Thou wouldst be fee'd, I see, to make me sport:
Spread o'er the silver waves thy golden hairs,
For the capacity of my ruder powers:
Come, come to me,
As fast as they are made, forgot as soon
Or, if she be accused in true report,
A gross hag
Be bold to tell you that I am your son;
Decius, go tell them Caesar will not come.
Thou, old Adam's likeness, set to dress this garden,
I am hitherto your daughter: but here's my husband,
Sir, 'tis the governor of Mytilene,
With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls?
Offering him a root
the fool is the whetstone of the wits. How now,
To bear our hearts in grief and our whole kingdom
To be a warrior, and command a camp.
No, madam.
Hanged! by'r lady, then I have brought up a neck to
Too noble for this place.
See, see, King Richard doth himself appear,
for she shall not live: no, my heart is turned to
honestly by the prick of their needles, but it will
You must to Parthia: your commission's ready;
And well we may come there by dinner-time.
Led you to Duncan. O, these flaws and starts,
Not so; even through the hollow eyes of death
With the rich worth of your virginity.
This is a way to kill a wife with kindness;
and, God be thanked, well to live.
Say 'I am none of thine.'
Who painfully with much expedient march
Fare you well.
Enter DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, BENEDICK, BALTHASAR, DON JOHN, BORACHIO, MARGARET, URSULA and others, masked
They hail'd him father to a line of kings:
I am but sorry, not afeard; delay'd,
Undaunted spirit in a dying breast!
I thank thee, Hector
And shall do so ever, though I took him at 's
Most wise in general: tell me, if thou canst,
This dilatory sloth and tricks of Rome.
tell you, captain, if you look in the maps of the
Which never could I so convey,
Great Glamis! worthy Cawdor!
When his wife's dead; therefore I'll lie with him
What, what? Nay, then I must have an ounce or two
'Tis true, indeed; so your daughter says: 'Shall
As easily 'gainst our rocks: for joy whereof
Here comes one.
a soldier.
Taste, touch and smell, pleased from thy tale rise;
[Aside]  His words do take possession of my bosom.
Pray God he may acquit him of suspicion!
Go thou with her to the west end of the wood;
We doubt it nothing: heartily farewell.
Is now leased out, I die pronouncing it,
This act so evilly born shall cool the hearts
What, in metre?
I'll follow and outstare him.
Falstaff: him keep with, the rest banish. And tell
Wicked and vile; and so her death concludes.
This is a scurvy tune too: but here's my comfort.
The Knights and Ladies dance
Here.
Pray, sir, be patient: 'tis as much impossible--
This feast of battle with mine adversary.
Exeunt
Go, count thy way with sighs; I mine with groans.
And that I have possess'd him my most stay
is immortal; those that do die of it do seldom or
Makes our hopes fair. Command our present numbers
No, sir; but you have that in your countenance
Re-enter TIMON and FLAVIUS
What tumult's this?
Should well agree with our external parts?
And this is Geffrey's: in the name of God
O, I am slain! famine and no other hath slain me:
Mark, silent king, the moral of this sport,
Will bring me off again. What's this? 'To the Pope!'
That does afflict our natures. I am sorry.
By lack of stooping,--
Exeunt CORIOLANUS and AUFIDIUS. The two Servingmen come forward
And shall the figure of God's majesty,
had banished thy uncle, the duke my father, so thou
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  Are ye advised? the
rogue, a villain, that fights by the book of
Expect Saint Martin's summer, halcyon days,
Brother, a word; descend: brother, I say!
That by this sympathized one day's error
Whose dismal tune bereft my vital powers;
For when they hold 'em, you would swear directly
Sorry am I his numbers are so few,
Cursed the blood that let this blood from hence!
Were more than you expect, or more than's fit,
I would your grace would take me with you: whom
A many fools, that stand in better place,
Plantagenet is thine;' who though I speak it before
That I may venture to depart alone.
I have been in such a pickle since I
One do I personate of Lord Timon's frame,
I therein do forget.
To bring false generations: they are co-heirs;
Soft! What are you
Kneels
If you will make't an action, call witness to't.
Makest thou this shame thy pastime?
Lie would not yield to age.
Here comes Brabantio and the valiant Moor.
But when it first did help to wound itself.
From forth the streets of Pomfret, whom I found
In all my miseries; but thou hast forced me,
A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak,
Your matrons and your maids, could not fill up
Your eyes do make no coaches; in your tears
I do not think there is any such woman.
That stands upon your royal grandsire's bones,
Is that my prize? are my deserts no better?
Sirrah, your brother is legitimate;
The senators alone of this great world,
Be you his eunuch, and your mute I'll be:
Let us not live in France; let us quit all
Which to maintain I would allow him odds,
As here at home, suggests the king our master
Come hither, cover'd with an antic face,
The time hath been,
Sleep a little.
What shall I do the where? where bide? how live?
Which not to read would show the Britons cold:
I trust I may not trust thee; for thy word
Vaughan, and all that have miscarried
I must be held a rancorous enemy.
Which cannot brook the accent of reproof.
Made it no conscience to destroy a prince.
Away, and glister like the god of war,
But let not therefore my good friends be grieved--
As heaven had lent her all his grace;
And made his majesty the bawd to theirs.
Sweet leaves, shade folly. Who is he comes here?
Is't possible?
Enter Chorus
Which, as her winks, and nods, and gestures
Come, come, let's fall in with them.
The Volsces dare break with us.
Upon my life, then, you took the wrong.
They are opposed already.
I do not think a braver gentleman,
turns up the white o' the eye to his discourse. But
What can man's wisdom
he would cudgel you.
If I revolt, off goes young George's head;
I am sure it was your wife's--did I to-day
As fresh as morning dew distill'd on flowers?
Than is the doting title of a mother;
Most truly limn'd and living in your face,
No more words, Thersites; peace!
the camp will do among foaming bottles and
another laced, an old rusty sword ta'en out of the
For these deep shames and great indignities.
To spend with thee: we must obey the time.
As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'
The sands are number'd that make up my life;
Re-enter Attendants with AARON
This is the fruit of whoring. Prithee, Emilia,
Peace, I say! hear mine host of the Garter. Am I
The fresh streams ran by her, and murmur'd her moans;
This is most likely!
Your very goodness and your company
Exit
is no man can tell what. Methought I was,--and
Welcome, indeed! By Venus' hand I swear,
But I will keep her ignorant of her good,
Ha, thou mountain-foreigner! Sir John and Master mine,
I am now going to resolve him: I had rather my
The noise goes, this: there is among the Greeks
Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it
come then: the appurtenance of welcome is fashion
Put up thy gold: go on,--here's gold,--go on;
If their purgation did consist in words,
Dost thou believe, Orlando, that the boy
Some other time for that. Beloved Regan,
Have there injointed them with an after fleet.
Is this done?
She is not fourteen. How long is it now
a fair end.
Who was sole heir to the usurper Capet,
mistress. Thou pratest, and pratest; serve with thy
But, look, the morn, in russet mantle clad,
With a foul traitor's name stuff I thy throat;
Away! for thou hast stay'd us here too long.
delivers it.
I am thus resolved: on Sunday next you know
Alexander. What he bids be done is finished with
I found by fortune and did give my husband;
her husband, will be from home. Alas! the sweet
This is not so well as I looked for, but the best
Emilia run you to the citadel,
Since they, so few, watch such a multitude.
I'll keep shut: now, of another thing she may, and
Go, gentleman, every man unto his charge
Make pale our cheek, chasing the royal blood
It is an earnest of a further good
One time will owe another.
She's well, but bade me not commend her to you.
Let them alone awhile, and then open the door.
Nor wish no less; and so, I take my leave.
Even till that utmost corner of the west
But I do prophesy the election lights
O, ay, what else?
Winding up days with toil and nights with sleep,
And e'en as if your lord should wear rich jewels,
A fearful battle render'd you in music:
Thy turfy mountains, where live nibbling sheep,
the discharge: your neck, sir, is pen, book and
Attended with the pleasures of the world,
O, Signieur Dew should be a gentleman:
Whilst I was big in clamour came there in a man,
I would not from thee.
And with his former title greet Macbeth.
We will be there before the stream o' the people;
An undergoing stomach, to bear up
Health, at your bidding, serve your majesty!
therefore he gives them good leave to wander.
SCENE III. London. The palace.
ANTIPHOLUS
That now you are come, you will be gone. Leave me
When English measure backward their own ground
Ha!
Go to; thou hast it ad dunghill, at the fingers'
Nay, but you part in anger.
thy tongue. Kerely bonto, sir, betake thee to thy
damned for this, the devil himself will have no
This letter is mistook, it importeth none here;
Walk here i' the orchard, I'll bring her straight.
Grown to this faction in the Temple-garden,
When violence assails us.
things should be: all difficulties are but easy
Here's his lordship now.
'Twas mine, 'tis his, and has been slave to thousands:
entertainment.
Thus have I shunn'd the fire for fear of burning,
Whereof my sovereign would have note, they are
They are as children but one step below,
delivered me, the knave constable had set me i' the
Those that will hear me speak, let 'em stay here;
Was beastly dumb'd by him.
Look you, if you take the matter otherwise than is
I would he had.
Such barren pleasures, rude society,
That man i' the world who shall report he has
O, I believe with him,
How many then should cover that stand bare!
Come, follow. Speak not for him.
To melt myself away in water-drops!
these boots too: an they be not, let them hang
Tullus Aufidius, that will put you to 't.
God's will! my liege, would you and I alone,
Speak like a true knight, so defend thee heaven!
Upon the spot of this enforced cause,--
His crown bequeathing to his banish'd brother,
I sell thee poison; thou hast sold me none.
As that the sin hath brought you to this shame,
Alarums, excursions, retreat. Enter KING JOHN,  QUEEN ELINOR, ARTHUR, the BASTARD, HUBERT, and Lords
Man and wife:
Bear Hamlet, like a soldier, to the stage;
A hearty welcome.
I know him for a man divine and holy;
The what?
Exeunt
As you in worth dispraise Sir Valentine.
By that you love the dearest in this world,
Alas, good Cassius, do not think of him:
How now, Captain Fluellen! come you from the bridge?
To be your prisoner should import offending;
And yet me thinks I see it in thy face,
Therefore I know she is about my height.
Wherefore hast thou accused him all this while?
Most admirable: I have seen those wars.
And she in mine.
Nay, this shall not hedge us out: we'll hear you
You must first go yourself to hazard, ere you have them.
Is she not hard-favoured, sir?
I am much deceived but I remember the style.
Of what validity and pitch soe'er,
Being a bark to brook no mighty sea,
Wherever the bright sun of heaven shall shine,
Most palates theirs. They choose their magistrate,
While I with self-same kindness welcome thine.
the next turning.
I have not deserved this.
If thou remember'st not the slightest folly
And loves to live i' the sun,
So much they spur their expedition.
What didst thou lose, Jack?
High sparks of honour in thee have I seen.
And my good Lord of Worcester will set forth
I know my lord hath spent of Timon's wealth,
Thy sorrow in my breast. Come, ladies, go,
Hath in her more destruction than thy sword,
Thou hast sworn my love to be.
Ask Marian Hacket, the fat ale-wife of Wincot, if
Of what I saw there.
O, you are novices! 'tis a world to see,
My dearest lord, bless'd, to be most accursed,
Nay, daughter, carry the wine in; we'll drink within.
Hold you content. What, man! I know them, yea,
Come hither, Mistress Ford; Mistress Ford the honest
That teacheth tricks eleven and twenty long,
No, I hear not your honest friend; I hear you.
And yet I know not how to get the crown,
We will not now be troubled with reply:
'Tis I that made thy widows: many an heir
O mistress, mistress, shift and save yourself!
He said that Proteus your son was meet,
'Tis burnt; and so is all the meat.
That's my mind too. Good morrow, Lord AEneas.
Ay, and an ox too: both the proofs are extant.
Inflame too nicely; nor let pity, which
The painting is almost the natural man;
be thy chance to kill me,'--
I never gave you aught.
Peace to his soul, if God's good pleasure be!
Alas, she has no speech.
Which to this hour bewail the injury,
Dove-feather'd raven! wolvish-ravening lamb!
Let me see thee froth and lime: I am at a word; follow.
Is not this just? for I shall sutler be
Is he gone, and hath nothing?
'Tis pity of him.
And by the way possess thee what she is.
I never sued to friend nor enemy;
sprat you shall find him; which you shall see this
I am the most unhappy woman living.
Guienne, Champagne, Rheims, Orleans,
Come, 'tis no matter:
Enter Host
That you have tasted her in bed, my hand
Sick, O, sick!
Ay; is't not strange?
The Prince of Cumberland; which honour must
To twinkle in their spheres till they return.
You were lately whipped, sir, as I think.
that they make, the devils mar five.
How blessed are we that are not simple men!
Many good nights, my lord: I rest your servant.
Why then, God's soldier be he!
No question.
burthens of dildos and fadings, 'jump her and thump
should flout him, if he writ to me; yea, though I
Yes, my good lord, a pure unspotted heart,
'Tis like you'll prove a jolly surly groom,
Nothing of that shall from mine eyes appear.
I shall do't, my lord.
Did I forget that by the house of York
The difference of old Shylock and Bassanio:--
boot, can never amend.
Against this proud protector, with my sword!
Yet will he swear he loves.
Of tyranny and will ignoble make you,
Could not be wedged in more: I am stifled
This office to you.
We shall obey, were she ten times our mother. Have
SCENE I. Venice. A court of justice.
But truly, I do fear it.
With what great state he heard their embassy,
Hark! hark! what shout is that?
The trumpet sounds a parley
He flatly says he'll not lay down his arms.
But pearls are fair; and the old saying is,
'Tis good, sir: you are very short with us;
Enter a Master and a Boatswain
avoid that too, with an If. I knew when seven
By wailful sonnets, whose composed rhymes
As much good stay with thee as go with me!
Exit
To cut the forfeiture from that bankrupt there.
Enter ISABELLA and LUCIO
If I be not, heavens be revenged on me!
And as I find her, so am I affected.
intelligence hath seldom failed.
The tale of Tereus; here the leaf's turn'd down
Sir, amen.
And with the same to act controlling laws.
Henry had none, but did usurp the place;
It is to jet upon a prince's right?
When our sea-walled garden, the whole land,
came her like in Mytilene.
Hath from the number of his banish'd years
Burthen Bow-wow
And all for her; a plague upon her!
Acquaint my daughter no further with any thing you
Exit Messenger
daughter of most rare note: the report of her is
Exit
There is a prohibition so divine
As salt as wolves in pride, and fools as gross
A soothsayer bids you beware the ides of March.
SCENE III. A church.
Unless I look on Silvia in the day,
When love begins to sicken and decay,
A truant disposition, good my lord.
To spend the time to end it.
SCENE I. The coast of Kent.
Ajax offers to beat him
BISHOP
But for my duty to your ladyship.
I am content, in a good father's care,
And thereupon give me your daughter.
Even by the squandering glances of the fool.
come, come; trib, trib.
Come, mistress; come your ways with me.
Send out more horses; skirr the country round;
And bid the snail-paced Ajax arm for shame.
Let them hang.
Hover about me with your airy wings
Hot lavender, mints, savoury, marjoram;
I came to her from Claudio, and desired her
I have made strong proof of my constancy,
Plead my successive title with your swords:
For never anything can be amiss,
He that is robb'd, not wanting what is stol'n,
While we devise fell tortures for thy faults.
Prithee, let him.
Thou, an Egyptian puppet, shalt be shown
Our overplus of shipping will we burn;
Hath in the tables of his law commanded
I have sworn an oath that I will have my bond.
Which to prevent he made a law,
Go to, we pardon thee: therefore, in brief,
Without perdition, and loss assume all reason
In good set terms and yet a motley fool.
Whom in this conflict I unwares have kill'd.
What conjuration and what mighty magic,
No, Titus, no; the emperor needs her not,
And the youth, mistook by me,
Exit
Enter TROILUS armed, and PANDARUS
The king's request that I would visit you;
No, truly, unless thou wert hard-favoured; for
Enter FENTON and Host
But still, where danger was, still there I met him;
brother die by the law than my son should be
In marriage-pleasures play-fellow:
Thy friends suspect for traitors while thou livest,
And that's far worse than none; better have none
Bring forth that fatal screech-owl to our house,
out of the court: they cherish it to make it stay
A beggar begs that never begg'd before.
Not my deserts, but what I will deserve:
Music within
Would serve to scale another Hero's tower,
With joy he will embrace you, for he's honourable
I love your son.
Now am I dead,
That Antony may seem to spend his fury
She weeps, and says her Henry is deposed;
You may pace easy, but not such a wife.
Flower of this purple dye,
And skilless as unpractised infancy.
Now tell me how long you would have her after you
Peace! I will stop your mouth.
The soul and body rive not more in parting
And call'd unto a cardinal's degree?
Exit
good natures
need not to be ashamed of your majesty, praised be
Go, see him out at gates, and follow him,
Putting on SIR HUMPHREY'S brigandine
Now, signior, where's the count? did you see him?
I dare not say, from the rich cardinal
Enter DUKE OF YORK and DUCHESS OF YORK
What then, do you see?
because I do. Look, here comes the duke.
With Leonine, a murderer.
But, notwithstanding, with my personal eye
For once, upon a raw and gusty day,
Set on thy wife to observe: leave me, Iago:
Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow!
Once more I'll mark how love can vary wit.
Exit
To an asp, which she applies to her breast
You look upon that sleeve; behold it well.
But issued from the progeny of kings;
entreaty, and himself to the drink.
Where is thy conscience now?
If he be absent, bring his brother to me;
Wrong not yourself, then, noble Helicane;
Their course of love, the tidings of her death:
Takes the Child from the Nurse, and draws
own part, I am, as they say, but to parfect one man
Solemn music
For losing ken of Albion's wished coast.
Mark our contract.
Breathe I against thee, upon pain of life.
To your good prayers will scarcely say amen.
As well as it does you: and I should do it
Believe me, you are marvellously changed.
It will let in and out the enemy
I prithee, do not strive against my vows:
An old hare hoar,
At knowing of thy choice.
and left nothing i' the middle: here comes one o'
Weaves tedious snares to trap mine enemies.
Throwing the body down
How now! what's the matter? My old friend Grumio!
I have heard, sir, of such a man, who hath a
I speak not to that railing Hecate,
Lords of the wide world and wild watery seas,
How's this? We must take another course with you.
'Me, an't shall please you; I am Anthony Dull.
That have the office opposite to Saint Peter,
And I will send you to my brother Gloucester,
earned him. Away!
Runs on the dexter cheek, and this sinister
their noses are led by their eyes but blind men; and
Who is it thou dost call usurper, France?
For no thought is contented. The better sort,
For such a one we show'd 'em: if they smile,
why, being son to me, art thou so pointed at? Shall
His golden uncontroll'd enfranchisement,
Three thousand ducats, due unto the Jew,
Enter LADY CAPULET and Nurse
that honour of hers which you imagine so reserved.
And sent her enemies unto the grave.
How much more is his life in value with him?
And those boils did run? say so: did not the
Both merits poised, each weighs nor less nor more;
Weakness possesseth me, and I am faint.
beaten myself into all the colours of the rainbow;
By a letter, I should say.
occasion; that sall I, marry.
That I'll try.
Had not a show might countervail his worth.
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
piece of my desires.
In this place we left them:
Which I have given to you?
Do you mark that, my lord?
Can no man tell me of my unthrifty son?
Coriolanus neither to care whether they love or hate
Especially in pride.
Our debts, our careful wives,
Where I have seen corruption boil and bubble
For if Lord Percy thrive not, ere the king
discharged. But come, your Bergomask: let your
And unavoided is the danger now,
So that by this intelligence we learn
When he stands where I am and sees you there.
bloody kind,
Saw you my daughter?
Or as a bear, encompass'd round with dogs,
Whereto, when they shall know what men are rich,
Ready.
Cannot you tell that? every fool can tell that: it
Metheglin, wort, and malmsey: well run, dice!
Were it to call King Edward's widow sister,
I was about to speak and tell him plainly,
Any man that can write may answer a letter.
mine, twice or thrice in that last article.
Or that I do not yet, and ever did.
My Lord of Norfolk,--
SCENE VI. The same. A room in the brothel.
son, my son! Tell me, thou villain, where is my son Lucentio?
was up so early: he cannot choose but take this
As hounds and greyhounds, mongrels, spaniels, curs,
I prithee tell me; cram's with praise, and make's
Speak out thy sorrows which thou bring'st in haste,
By the white hand of my lady, he's a gallant prince.
At an unusual hour?
More than thou hast, and with it joy thy life;
Why hast thou thus adjourn'd
the ass: if thou wert the ass, thy dulness would
Beshrew the winners, for they play'd me false!
He brings great news.
'The fool doth think he is wise, but the wise man
Like to the Garter's compass, in a ring:
The patron of my life and liberty.
What, will you walk with me about the town,
And shalt be ever.
Exeunt POSTHUMUS LEONATUS and Messenger
Where is thy power, then, to beat him back?
I have sixty sails, Caesar none better.
That Bevis was believed.
Enter EMILIA
To have a look of such a worthy mistress.
It doth amount to one more than two.
Vicious, ungentle, foolish, blunt, unkind;
To run and show their shoulders. Friends, be gone;
Well, then, farewell.
As true as I believe you think them false
What, is he in his bed?
Are you a-weary of me?
will not be entreated. Speak to him, ladies; see if
Amongst the rarest of good ones,--sitting sadly,
But little: I am arm'd and well prepared.
Exeunt. Alarum, and chambers go off
That is your part: yet I am advised to do it;
That gentleman of Buckingham's; in person
Come, shall I make you two friends? We must to
That thou art banished--O, that's the news!--
To loves mistook, and so be mock'd withal
That reacheth from the restful English court
Till thou dost hear me call.
As merry as when our nuptial day was done,
Setting aside his high blood's royalty,
Say, then: 'tis true, I ought so.
That, neither in birth or for authority,
His absolute commission. Long live Caesar!
Which he shall have: I'll pay the debt,
Suspect still comes where an estate is least.
Yes.
Instructed by the antiquary times,
Of old Sir Rowland! why, what make you here?
Therefore to arms! be champion of our church,
Can neither call it perfect day nor night.
puts transgression to 't.
It is an honour 'longing to our house,
How I convey my shame out of thine eyes
Knock,
Thou art a soldier only: speak no more.
To think that or our cause or our performance
To upstart unthrifts? Wherefore was I born?
When in the why and the wherefore is neither rhyme
Two traded pilots 'twixt the dangerous shores
And then my soul shall wait on thee to heaven,
Madam, by chance but not by truth; what though?
Philomel, with melody
Ere in our own house I do shade my head,
Fie on't! ah fie! 'tis an unweeded garden,
Have you scored me? Well.
Having some business, do entreat her eyes
That, on mine honour, here I do protest.
Even so
Please it your majesty to give me leave,
And thrift is blessing, if men steal it not.
Bolingbroke!'
Not sure, though hoping, of this good success,
Gentlemen,
And gentle, kind, effeminate remorse,
That's but a cavil: he is old, I young.
to herself her own words to her own ears; she
Fulfil your pleasure. Live a thousand years,
Vouchsafe, bright moon, and these thy stars, to shine,
Like damned guilty deeds to sinners' minds:
'Twas not my purpose, thus to beg a kiss:
Sweet Hero! She is wronged, she is slandered, she is undone.
Ten thousand harms, more than the ills I know,
And victory, with little loss, doth play
There is no music in the nightingale;
May have the due note of him; and of my land,
With no less presence, but with much more love,
He is no crescent, and his horns are
With an invisible and subtle stealth
Of thy nativity! I would the milk
Let us seek out some desolate shade, and there
His ransom there is none but I shall pay:
Our bending author hath pursued the story,
reports for me.
Repent what's past; avoid what is to come;
That you are thieves profess'd, that you work not
Indeed, Master Ford, this is not well, indeed.
O heat, dry up my brains! tears seven times salt,
Is Talbot slain? then I will slay myself,
How hard it is for women to keep counsel!
if it were going to bucking: or--it is whiting-time
Serve God, love me and mend. There will I leave
Though that the queen on special cause is here,
Lord marshal, let me kiss my sovereign's hand,
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO in his own habit, and FRIAR PETER
Of lower Syria, Cyprus, Lydia,
See here in bloody lines I have set down;
Witness the hole you made in Caesar's heart,
Diet his sickness, for it is my office,
SCENE III. The woods. Timon's cave, and a rude tomb seen.
Lend me the flourish of all gentle tongues,--
house: her pretence is a pilgrimage to Saint Jaques
Yes, sir, I shall.
Now, madam, may his highness live in freedom,
I should have scratch'd out your unseeing eyes
Hear me, recreant!
Truly, my name is Cinna.
Hail, worthy Timon!
Your grace must wait till you be call'd for.
Kissing her
Approach the chamber, and destroy your sight
plentifully gives me, the something that nature gave
Enter Judges, Senators and Tribunes, with MARTIUS  and QUINTUS, bound, passing on to the place of execution; TITUS going before, pleading
Thy brother's blood the thirsty earth hath drunk,
O, belike his majesty hath some intent
And vows revenge as spacious as between
knees; that she would make a puritan of the devil,
maids, and cut off their heads.
To hear and see her plaints, her brinish tears.
Cousin, farewell: what presence must not know,
Take thou some of it, and seek through this grove:
should be otherwise.
To tell you where he lodges, is to tell you where I lie.
Have done a drunken slaughter, and defaced
Re-enter ANTONY
Who smirch'd thus and mired with infamy,
house, unless you undertake that with me which with
And this the cranny is, right and sinister,
Margaret.
Look on his letter, madam; here's my passport.
To make this banquet; which I wish may prove
Therefore to our best mercy give yourselves;
That I am proud to hunt.
Yes, that goodness
And I for Rosalind.
He thinks, nay, with all confidence he swears,
But in mistaking.
this great world.
Ah, thou, the model where old Troy did stand,
too hard for my wits and all the tribe of hell, thou
As well to see the vessel that's come in
Exit
Such as befits the pleasure of the court?
If your honour judge it meet, I will place you
Dissolve my life! The next Caesarion smite!
peradventure prings goot discretions with it: there
Makes merit her election, and doth boil,
Ah, Humphrey, can I bear this shameful yoke?
Go; away with her to prison!
Gives signal, of a goodly day to-morrow.
Now, by my troth, if I had been remember'd,
Amen.
'Gainst us, our state, our subjects, or our land.
Which gives men stomach to digest his words
With something rich about me: from that place
Expect even here, where is a kingly patient:
France,--I cannot tell vat is baiser en Anglish.
Shake he his weapon at us and pass by.
Nay, master, said not I as much when I saw the
not--Cock's passion, silence! I hear my master.
As when a giant dies.
May be the devil: and the devil hath power
I bid my very friends and countrymen,
We'll try that; for I'll appoint my men to carry the
Use mercy to them all. For us, dear uncle,
Mort du vinaigre! is not this Helen?
Which I have pass'd upon her; she is banish'd.
That honour which shall bate his scythe's keen edge
As husbands have. What is it that they do
He cannot choose. I am most fortunate, thus
big enough; if it be too big for your thief, your
First hand me: on mine own accord I'll off;
must serve me to feed on.
women the play may please. If I were a woman I
but what mystery there should be in hanging, if I
So I had nothing known. O, now, for ever
But by self-danger, you should tread a course
I greatly fear my money is not safe.
Which does mend nature, change it rather, but
Ay, leeks is good: hold you, there is a groat to
With strange invention: but of that to-morrow,
a tall ship lie buried, as they say, if my gossip
Can it be possible that no man saw them?
'Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright, or
And all the shrouds wherewith my life should sail
Even to a full disgrace. Best of my flesh,
The hate I bear thee made me leave thee so?
What a sigh is there! The heart is sorely charged.
Exeunt KING LEAR, KENT, and Attendants
Swift, swift, you dragons of the night, that dawning
If the living be enemy to the grief, the excess
On Neptune's billow; half the flood
Why, shall we turn to men?
How will my wife for slaughter of my son
What does his lordship mean?
I would it were my fault to sleep so soundly.
Sweet Hero! now thy image doth appear
To draw apart the body he hath kill'd:
by a gentleman his companion.
Than she to scant her duty.
as I said; but more than that, he loved her: for
sometimes to see 'em, and not to see 'em; now the
Not for the fliers: mark me, and do the like.
I'll to the queen: please you,
A man, as you are.
What I dare too well do, I dare not do.
no harm, good man;' puts him off, slights him, with
O God, what mischiefs work the wicked ones,
According to the weight and worthiness.
Plants with goodly burthen bowing;
And twice as much, whate'er thou offer'st next.
That is, he will make thee amends.
Of unrelenting Clifford and the queen,
Give first admittance to the ambassadors;
To his home before us. Fair and noble hostess,
knave with fortune, that she should scratch you, who
Tell me your counsels, I will not disclose 'em:
O sir, the loathsomeness of them offends me more
O my brave emperor, this is fought indeed!
Sir?
Tickling a parson's nose as a' lies asleep,
Of pale and bloodless emulation:
Gelding the opposed continent as much
I do not think he fears death.
Wherein thyself shalt highly be employ'd.
Our hostess keeps her state, but in best time
Along with me: I'll see what hole is here,
Re-enter DIOMEDES
Our duties, and the pledge.
[Within]  A pox o' your throats! Who makes that
I'ld wish no better choice, and think me rarely wed.
Came to this vault to die, and lie with Juliet.
But they shall find, awaked in such a kind,
Flourish. Enter KING LEWIS XI, his sister BONA,  his Admiral, called BOURBON, PRINCE EDWARD, QUEEN  MARGARET, and OXFORD. KING LEWIS XI sits, and riseth up again
in it five weeks without changing.
Have read it for restoratives:
Lose our drum! well.
kind of merry war betwixt Signior Benedick and her:
It not concern'd me.
And so I would be here, but that I doubt
a jakes with him. Spare my gray beard, you wagtail?
As Priam was for all his valiant sons.
That doth not wish you joy!
In faith, my hand meant nothing to my sword.
And his love Thisbe; very tragical mirth.'
Yourself and your accusers; and to have heard you,
Lord of lords!
A fine volley of words, gentlemen, and quickly shot off.
Exeunt
England, bound in with the triumphant sea
Grandpre and Roussi, Fauconberg and Foix,
Indeed, a sheep doth very often stray,
Did you such a thing?
action. But, sweet Ned,--to sweeten which name of
By heaven, I think my sword's as sharp as yours:
O my lord!
Against what man thou comest, and what thy quarrel:
with mine enemy; I have undone three tailors; I have
As honour without breach of honour may
Which died in Geffrey, and the hand of time
Lie there for pavement to the abject rear,
What, fifty of my followers at a clap!
First, madam, I entreat true peace of you,
And mince it sans remorse: swear against objects;
Exit MARIA
indeed, my father did something smack, something
him to prison! Where is the provost? Away with him
Young Edward lives: think now what I would say.
And makes men mad.
First Murderer appears at the door
Enter YORK
You we first seize on.
There is a world elsewhere.
In faith, I will, la; never trust me else.
Are they returned to the court?
Note him good Charmian, 'tis the man; but note him:
Say you consent and censure well the deed,
ignorance, given your enemy your shield, think to
And ask him what apparel he will wear;
She should have stayed in France and starved
ever went on four legs cannot make him give ground;
And so he'll die; and, rising so again,
pray you, leave me.
This is my servant: hear him, noble prince.
And so, intending other serious matters,
Your noble emperor and his lovely bride,
Let me persuade you to forbear awhile.
If the man be a bachelor, sir, I can; but if he be a
Sound trumpet; Edward shall be here proclaim'd:
Madam, they are for you.
But it sufficeth that the day will end,
Exit
Your brother is to die.
And sway our great designs!
Sir Proteus, you are stay'd for.
But I know none, and therefore am no beast.
Ay, ay: I care not for good life.
The rather that you give his offspring life,
Nor now my scandal, Richard, dost thou hear;
And blessed shall he be that doth revolt
Exeunt FERDINAND and MIRANDA severally
To be, or not to be: that is the question:
With all my heart, my lord.
And thou art twice her love.
But so is not she.
lordship anon.
That chamberers have, or for I am declined
paper, although the sheet were big enough for the
We have a maid in Mytilene, I durst wager,
Well, well, we'll leave you.
If trembling I inhabit then, protest me
That ends this strange eventful history,
I will not desire that.
Nor your son Dorset, Buckingham, nor you;
Masking the business from the common eye
'Tis true, most worthy signior;
Alarums. Enter MACDUFF
For I upon this bank will rest my head.
Villain, thou know'st no law of God nor man:
I am satisfied.
Where is my wit? I know not what I speak.
PERICLES discovered
As mountain winds: but then exactly do
Were deeply rooted; and shall make your lord,
father perforce, I will render thee again in
Furnish you fairly for this interchange:
We are enow yet living in the field
For the letter that begins them all, H.
Is stol'n away to Rome; hath ta'en no leave;
laud them, I praise them.
mouth, and half Count John's melancholy in Signior
Forgive me, country, and sweet countrymen,
[Aside]  Though this be madness, yet there is method
What say'st thou, man? hast thou as yet conferr'd
Enter CASSIO
Into the lean and slipper'd pantaloon,
Lear's shadow.
Stand not amazed: the prince will doom thee death,
country. 'Steal by line and level' is an excellent
She is not for your turn, the more my grief.
To-night she is mew'd up to her heaviness.
Or else was wrangling Somerset in the error?
Submissive fall his princely feet before,
To hear him so inclined.
Placing therein some expert officers,
Exit
Enter HAMLET
wilfully seeks her own salvation?
For your expenses and sufficient charge,
Before the head has any,
Shall win the wager which we will propose.
You're liars all.
To be produced--as, if I stay, I shall--
Go on, go on
In such another trick. Go bring the rabble,
Most piteous to be wild, I have dispatch'd in post
heir-apparent? should I turn upon the true prince?
him, of as good as he; so he laughed and let me go.
ANTIPHOLUS
the issue?
SCENE IV. The same. A street.
scold with her. She told me, not thinking I had been
So sweet a bedfellow? But, conscience, conscience!
But ere we could arrive the point proposed,
In that dead time when Gloucester's death was plotted,
Only be patient till we have appeased
I give thee thy liberty, set thee from durance; and,
Would he were here! to all, and him, we thirst,
You wrong me every way; you wrong me, Brutus;
Enter HERMIONE guarded; PAULINA and Ladies attending
DON
Sir, you are music's master.
had any friend would be a man for my sake! But
And therefore lost that title of respect
But my intents are fix'd and will not leave me.
Exeunt
Exeunt DUKE OF YORK and QUEEN
But thither would I hie.
With his unkindness? say't be so?
But moody and dull melancholy,
And lay them gently on thy tender side.
What was my first? it has an elder sister,
For mine's beyond beyond--say, and speak thick;
and all, like him that leaped into the custard; and
an arm? no: or take away the grief of a wound? no.
desirous to lie with his mother earth?
But answer made it none: yet once methought
O my sweet master! O you memory
It is familiar,--but at the author's drift;
That ever holds: who riseth from a feast
How now, Master Ford!
To thee, Posthumus.
Why, what, I pray, is Margaret more than that?
Here to this place, i' the open air, before
That is to see how deep my grave is made;
Nor send you out o' the way?
You have good judgment in horsemanship.
I will seek out Falstaff.
They draw
And now be it known to you my full intent.
Had I been seized by a hungry lion,
And with a puissant and a mighty power
God shield I should disturb devotion!
owest the worm no silk, the beast no hide, the sheep
Exit CLOTEN
Gentle breath of yours my sails
His companies unletter'd, rude and shallow,
For your displeasure; but all will sure be well.
Of parents good, of fist most valiant.
Mine, and most of our fortunes, to-night, shall
But, for my will, my will is your good will
My lord, your son was gone before I came.
Fly away, fly away breath;
Father of Warwick, know you what this means?
I hate thee worse.
that I will make the duke say 'Let him roar again,
Why, so can I, or so can any man;
Most radiant Pyramus, most lily-white of hue,
So deep suspicion, where all faith was meant.
Come, neighbour: the boy shall lead our horses down
We are impressed and engaged to fight,
Will give thee all the world.
Enter the Ghost of CLARENCE
SCENE IV. The field of battle.
He brought a Grecian queen, whose youth and freshness
good enough for him.
made a little fault in 'Great.'
southerly I know a hawk from a handsaw.
Marry, peace it bodes, and love and quiet life,
ones and millions.
My hazards still have been your solace: and
What stature is she of?
Who is too good to pity thee.
Why, this is kindly done.
Exit
that obscene and preposterous event, that draweth
Who's his lieutenant, hear you?
Peace, villain!
Alas, it hath been great pains to you. They do you
monster. A most scurvy monster! I could find in my
And, when I spy advantage, claim the crown,
Not so:
Sir, I thank you; by yea and no, I do.
ACT V
I have no spleen against you; nor injustice
They fell together all, as by consent;
Thy hand hath murder'd him: I had a mighty cause
If thou didst put this sour-cold habit on
Neither, my lord.
Unless thou yield thee as my prisoner.
best array: bid your friends; for if you will be
Which some did die to look on: and all this--
For urging it the second time to me.
As were a war in expectation.
Thou mayst tell that knowest.
Look to my chattels and my movables:
He fell sick suddenly, and grew so ill
Of this most fair occasion, by the which
grass: and when I am king, as king I will be,--
That the probation bear no hinge nor loop
And we, like friends, will straightway go together.
Aside
In what we can, to bridle and suppress
You have prevailed: I will depart in quiet,
And wait the season and observe the times
Enter SIR ANDREW, SIR TOBY BELCH, and FABIAN
Poor we may call them in their native lords.
But, howsoever, strange and admirable.
Have rived the knotty oaks, and I have seen
Call Buckingham, and bid him arm himself.
But, mother, I am not sir Robert's son;
Mine speak of seventy senators that died
The soil's fertility from wholesome flowers.
Ready to go, but never to return.
O, now, let Richmond and Elizabeth,
Although as yet the face of it be cover'd
the way?--
Whoop'd out of Rome. Now this extremity
Her husband banish'd; she imprison'd: all
But far beyond my depth: my high-blown pride
Enter CAPULET
Nor sound his quillets shrilly: hoar the flamen,
Into his title, the which we find
Well, sir, I'll bring you to our master Lear,
I would learn that; for, by the
Exeunt
Enter PROSPERO above, invisible. Enter several  strange Shapes, bringing in a banquet;  they dance about it with gentle actions of  salutation; and, inviting the King,  and c. to eat, they depart
sleeps: say on: come to Hecuba.
was converted, might they not stop a beer-barrel?
I cannot too much muse
She moves me not, or not removes, at least,
Be ruled by me: depart in patience,
And left them
Call him my king by whose injurious doom
And find your grace in health.
That bears so shrewd a maim; two pulls at once;
Where false Plantagenet dare not be seen.
ever and a day.
Is all the policy, strength and defence,
The rest stand all aloof, and bark at him.
Honest Iago hath ta'en order for't.
Draw it.
Gone to seek his dog; which tomorrow, by his
Niggard of question; but, of our demands,
And truly, as I hope to live.
Not painted with the crimson spots of blood.
How doth he stand affected to our purpose;
My head with more ill news, for it is full.
Of both your armies; whose equality
If I quench thee, thou flaming minister,
Finding his usurpation most unjust,
doublet like a rabbit on a spit; or your hands in
Fetch me the hat and rapier in my cell:
What is it, my good lord, the king languishes of?
This is the hand that stabb'd thy father York;
Then, good my lords, bear witness to his oath.
Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
[Aside to COSTARD]  They have been at a great feast
Had you your letters from your wife, my lord?
Which you will wonder at.
Must I be his last refuge! His friends, like
SCENE IV. A camp in Wales.
Or of a courtier; which could say 'Good morrow,
[Pointing to his head and shoulder]
This candle burns not clear: 'tis I must snuff it;
None better than to let him fetch off his drum,
The exhalations whizzing in the air
With variable objects shall expel
may carry it thus, for our pleasure and his penance,
Do not live, Hero; do not ope thine eyes:
Thou wilt not hear me now; thou shalt not then:
I must confess your offer is the best;
And by their vehement instigation,
And that set together is noddy.
Upon her wit doth earthly honour wait,
The Volsces whom you serve, you might condemn us,
Their own particular thrifts, they would do that
Thanks, good Egeus: what's the news with thee?
This whimpled, whining, purblind, wayward boy;
Fall all together.
Wilt thou change fathers? I will give thee mine.
Shall we refresh us, sir, upon your shore,
Well, well, he was the covert'st shelter'd traitor
Expire before the flowers in their caps,
The mighty gods defend thee! Thy lover,
With all the fierce endeavor of your wit
This peace is nothing, but to rust iron, increase
You speak as if that I had slain my cousins.
I'll see it done.
As Dian's visage, is now begrimed and black
Because that I familiarly sometimes
Exeunt Servants
My daughter's buried. Well: where were you bred?
What ring gave you my lord?
or your own eyes had the lights they were wont to
They are too thin and bare to hide offences.
thee, eat it.
And ne'er have spoke a loving word to you;
the state, and usurp the beggary he was never born
Or, ere they meet, in me, O nature, cesse!
Threw off his spirit, his appetite, his sleep,
stuff a rabbit; and so may you, sir: and so, adieu,
Than such that do e'en enemies exceed.
Love got so sweet as when desire did sue.
Bound with an oath to yield to his conditions:
Talk of court news; and we'll talk with them too,
Both noisome and infectious.
matters as he, but I give heaven thanks and make no
And leave no memory of what it was!
beat it out of my hat: did you see my jewel?
Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven;
No matter: his heels have deserved it, in usurping
You shall read us the will, Caesar's will.
Here, good my glass, take this for telling true:
Gentle madam,
Hath founded his good fortunes on your love,
Take their examination yourself and bring it me: I
Some eight or ten.
And Britons strut with courage.
Upon the north side of this pleasant chase;
The universal landlord.
How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is
Can arbitrate this cause betwixt us twain;
all!
They find us touch'd, we will our kingdom give,
And made the forest tremble when they roar'd.
First he denied you had in him no right.
Think you 'twere prejudicial to his crown?
joy were now become a loss, cries 'O, thy mother,
And be a thwart disnatured torment to her!
Then I will give you the serving-creature.
show much like to madness: pray heaven his wisdom be
Ah, one that was a woful looker-on
Verily, I do not jest with you; there came news from
How will the country for these woful chances
Who thinks he knows that he ne'er knew my body,
Out of those many register'd in promise,
They will'd me say so, madam.
Most like a noble lord in love and one
Art not ashamed to look upon this beard?
[Within]  Your wife, sir knave! go get you from the door.
Especially he hath incurred the everlasting
That would refuse so fair an offer'd chain.
She did, indeed.
Finch-egg!
That only have fear'd Caesar: to the ports
Our purpose may hold there.
We'ld fight there too. But this it is; our foot
Yet witness what you hear we did intend:
SCENE I. The woods. Before Timon's cave.
And that same dew, which sometime on the buds
Say, Scroop, where lies our uncle with his power?
Were he as famous and as bold in war
Madam, I will, if suddenly I may.
Necessity will make us all forsworn
Nothing acquainted with these businesses;
And call itself your brother.
Will you not dance? How come you thus estranged?
take't of my soul, my lord leans wondrously to
To take the urgent hour. Come, sir, away.
The ape is dead, and I must conjure him.
Since pride must have a fall, and break the neck
The other is daughter to the banish'd duke,
What should I do, I do not?
Why makest thou it so strange?
Alas, the sea hath cast me on the rocks,
SCENE I. France. Before Harfleur.
He knows not what he says: and vain it is
that keeps the prison: he that goes in the calf's
so: ever your fresh whore and your powdered bawd:
And so dies my revenge.
He's worth more sorrow,
Madam, and pretty mistresses, give ear:
greatness, even to the utmost syllable of your
He has borne all things well: and I do think
You sad-faced men, people and sons of Rome,
Upon the very naked name of love.
Our lands, our lives and all are Bolingbroke's,
Go to, sweet queen, to go:--commends himself most
No longer Celia, but Aliena.
You bred him as my playfellow, and he is
is to look into happiness through another man's
SCENE I. DUKE ORSINO's palace.
By the vow of mine order I warrant you, if my
There where my fortune lives, there my life dies.
O,
Is this well spoken?
would require is likewise your own benefit.
Mistrust of good success hath done this deed.
Is yet fresh in their grief.
'Give me,' quoth I:
Are not within the leaf of pity writ,
No light, no fire: the unfriendly elements
Were it the mistress-court of mighty Europe:
Re-enter HUBERT
ne'er have use for 'em, and would most resemble
Take this fellow in, and send for
Yet must not we put the strong law on him:
If thou kill'st me, boy, thou shalt kill a man.
He will not be commanded: here's another,
In other arms than hers,--to him this challenge.
Methought you saw a serpent: what's in 'mother,'
nights' watchings.
He pleaded still not guilty and alleged
I bear no hatred, blessed man, for, lo,
Else ne'er could they hold out so as they do.
Come, fool, come; try me in thy paper.
Exeunt some of the Servants
Take this along; I writ it for thy sake
He's sentenced; no more hearing.
My lord, this is my daughter here asleep;
wisdom? so.
With speedy help doth lend redress.'
How with a sportful malice it was follow'd,
If you know aught which does behove my knowledge
How likest thou this picture, Apemantus?
Ay, and we are betroth'd: nay, more, our,
To go to Paris?
Anointed let me be with deadly venom,
Lords o'er their lords?
She'll gallop far enough to her destruction.
Your banish'd honours and restore yourselves
'Tis wonder that thy life and wits at once
Be yet my nephew: my brother hath a daughter,
ACT I
have almost embossed him; you shall see his fall
I do profess
fasted, it was presently after dinner; when you
Thou shalt be placed as viceroy under him,
As water in a sieve: give not me counsel;
like, which else would stand under grievous
What, makest thou me a dullard in this act?
That struck the foremost man of all this world
Uplift us to the view; in their thick breaths,
Or hew my way out with a bloody axe.
The expressure that it bears, green let it be,
Seditious to his grace and to the state.
Believe me, noble lord,
Lord, how it looks about! Believe me, sir,
If our betters play at that game, we must not dare
Well, thou hast a son shall take this disgrace off
There must be needs a like proportion
Thou bear'st my life off hence: let us avoid.
I may dispose of him.
The part my father meant to act upon
the lip of his mistress: your diet shall be in all
His face I know not.
And hemm'd about with grim destruction:
Exeunt
More laud than gilt o'er-dusted.
As to thy friends; for when did friendship take
The ambition in my love thus plagues itself:
To whisper. At the which let no man wonder.
The gentleman is learn'd, and a most rare speaker;
I noted her not; but I looked on her.
entertainest my love, let it appear in thy smiling;
I did think, by the excellent constitution of thy
Exit Ghost
For death remember'd should be like a mirror,
Eleanor, the law, thou see'st, hath judged thee:
Why, Doctor She: my lord, there's one arrived,
As you threw caps up will he tumble down,
Leash'd in like hounds, should famine, sword and fire
How does your grace?
Friends of my soul, you twain
it is pity of her life, for it is a naughty house.
Brave Titinius!
And, having France thy friend, thou shalt not dread
Well, thereby hangs a tale: good faith, it is such
There is among the Greeks Achilles, a better man than Troilus.
So, master mayor: these gates must not be shut
But let's about it.
am above thee; but be not afraid of greatness: some
Touch her soft mouth, and march.
[Aside]  Wormwood, wormwood.
thee to some shelter; and thou shalt not die for
He should have leave to go away betimes,
First, a very excellent good-conceited thing;
quoth a'? Gentlemen, can any of you tell me where I
Which, I dare vouch, is more than that he hath,
I were unmannerly, to take you out,
Courtesy itself must convert to disdain, if you come
Let us make the assay upon him: if he care not
Nerissa. Sirrah, go before.
Therefore, my lord protector, give consent
Than this; which to reiterate were sin
Ay, if a woman live to be a man.
This woman lock'd me out this day from dinner:
With bloody passage led your wars even to
abruption? What too curious dreg espies my sweet
O Harry's wife, triumph not in my woes!
Your worship says very true: I pray your worship,
O, let him marry her.
So hath the business that I come to speak of.
Some villain hath done me wrong.
And that bare vowel 'I' shall poison more
I take your offer and will live with you,
They fight
We mean to fight: within our files there are,
That she doth give her sorrow so much sway,
Mistress Bianca, bless you with such grace
washed off the next tide.
Vile worm, thou wast o'erlook'd even in thy birth.
Throws down one mountain to cast up a higher.
And all be turn'd to barnacles, or to apes
O, then unfold the passion of my love,
Item, Anchovies and sack after supper, 2s. 6d.
Is twice the other twain: but let us rear
Poor soul, God's goodness hath been great to thee:
All the whole synod of them!
me no service as a partisan I could not heave.
O, thy letter, thy letter! he's a good friend of mine:
SCENE I. GLOUCESTER's castle.
unhappy brains for drinking: I could well wish
to my husband he is now here, and hath drawn him and
Tucket